the hidden web community has started trying to find out how services and identities were compromised after police raids led to 17 arrests. last week, several high-profile sites on the so-called "hidden", "dark" or "deep" web were seized. experts are looking at techniques the authorities may have used to "de-cloak" people running services accessed through anonymisation service tor. "we were as surprised as most of you," said the group that develops tor. in a blog post, the tor project team wrote: "we are left asking, 'how did they locate the hidden services?' we don't know.  "in liberal democracies, we should expect that when the time comes to prosecute some of the 17 people who have been arrested, the police would have to explain to the judge how the suspects came to be suspects. "as a side benefit of the operation of justice, tor could learn if there are security flaws in hidden services or other critical internet-facing services." the anonymity tor offers means that it has become popular with criminals as a way to conduct their activities online. but the tor project, which receives funding from the us government, is also seen as a key component for those who need anonymity on the internet for other important reasons, such as activism in repressive regimes. tor is one of several services that allows people to access what is generally referred to as the "hidden", "deep" or "dark" web. here, sites that do not show up on traditional search engines are located.  but more importantly, users on tor have their locations, and therefore identities, hidden. this is achieved by routing a person's journey on the internet through various different computers in locations all over the world, creating anonymity. however, with this latest raid, the anonymity of users on tor is again under question. but one expert, dr steven murdoch, from university college london, told the bbc it was unlikely that tor itself had been "cracked". "some major hidden markets are still available," he noted. "including some of the biggest.  "if they had a successful way of compromising hidden services they would have done it to everyone." the shutdown of the hidden web services was co-ordinated by europol in what it dubbed operation onymous.  in a press release, it said more than 400 services were shut - although it later clarified that to mean 400 pages were disabled. those pages had belonged to 27 individual services that were seized and closed. the majority of the sites were selling drugs or other illegal paraphernalia, while others dealt with the selling of stolen credit card data. the most high-profile closure was of silk road 2.0 - a site selling drugs, set up after the closure of the original silk road site last year.  the tor project went into detail listing possible methods of how the sites were compromised and their owners arrested. they included: poor operational security - that is, basic failings in running the websites. on silk road 2.0, investigators noted that an email address identifying blake benthall, who's been accused of running the site, was found within its codebugs in web applications - just as in the open internet, elements used within pages, such as video players or other interactive features, on tor can be vulnerable to bugs and exploits. the tor project said some of the sites seized were likely to have contained "quickly-coded e-shops" which as a result had weaknessesbitcoin "deanonymisation" - those using illegal services need a way to pay for what they are getting - and bitcoin is often the virtual currency of choice. while bitcoin is far harder to trace than the use of normal payment methods, it is certainly not completely anonymous. recent research has demonstrated ways to link bitcoin transactions with a user's locationdenial of service (dos) attack - highly theoretical at this stage, law enforcement could orchestrate a dos attack - where a site is flooded with visits - in an attempt to force traffic to access tor through computers owned and monitored by the authorities. concerns about this complex technique were raised earlier this year in an attempt to find clues as to the authorities' tactics, one owner of a seized site - who was apparently not arrested - released log files showing activity on his "onion", the term given to sites on tor. he offered the logs up to the community for scrutiny. on a mailing list for tor developers, he wrote: "this will probably be a very humbling experience, because unlike my fellow illegal onion operators both past and present, i will actually be outside of a jail cell and able to read the ruthless dissection of my set-up.  "on the bright side, you're all are getting way more info from me than the pigs [police] will ever willingly cough up, which means if they have some sort of magic onion de-cloak trick, this mailing list discussion is a good chance at finding it." his post, titled, "yes hello, internet super-villain here", shared details of doxbin, a hidden website that allowed people to upload documents supposedly anonymously. from the logs, some have suggested that the dos attack, as detailed above, was responsible for "de-anonymising" users of the site. dr murdoch noted that getting a real explanation for how operation onymous was carried out is unlikely. "they're not going to tell anyone about it because they want to do it again," he said. "they want people to be afraid to run illegal hidden services." follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc tor is a special way to access the internet that requires software, known as the tor browser bundle, to use it. the name is an acronym for the onion router - just as there are many layers to the vegetable, there are many layers of encryption on the network. it was originally designed by the us naval research laboratory, and continues to receive funding from the us state department. it attempts to hide a person's location and identity by sending data across the internet via a very circuitous route involving several "nodes" - which, in this context, means using volunteers' pcs and computer servers as connection points. encryption applied at each hop along this route makes it very hard to connect a person to any particular activity. to the website that ultimately receives the request, it appears as if the data traffic comes from the last computer in the chain - known as an "exit relay" - rather than the person responsible. as well as allowing users to visit normal websites anonymously, it can also be used as part of a process to host hidden sites, which use the .onion suffix. tor's users include the military, law enforcement officers and journalists - who use it as a way of communicating with whistle-blowers - as well as members of the public who wish to keep their browser activity secret. but it has also been associated with illegal activity, allowing people to visit sites offering illegal drugs for sale and access to child abuse images, which do not show up in normal search engine results and would not be available to those who did not know where to look. supermarket giant tesco has suspended some parts of its online banking system after it detected attempts to steal cash from customers' accounts.  it said it spotted "suspicious transactions" on 40,000 accounts over the weekend, with money reportedly taken from about half of them. tesco has declined to elaborate on what happened, or say how much cash went astray, but said it was working with the national crime agency to investigate and find the culprits. yes, because this seems to be the first time that a uk bank has reacted so publicly by stopping some types of transactions on a web banking system because of "online criminal activity".  banks are targeted all the time but typically those attacks just hit a few individuals, so do not bring about a site closure. in this case, as far as we can tell, a lot of people lost cash very quickly. security expert troy hunt said the incident was unprecedented in its scale. he added that the shutdown was "embarrassing" for tesco and indicated how serious it was. tesco did not use the "h" word in its statement and in interviews its chief executive and other people speaking on behalf of the company have been careful in their choice of language. it has said that the attack was "sophisticated" and that an initial investigation had revealed exactly what had happened. so far, it has not shared that information but tesco's actions in the wake of the weekend's events do help to narrow down the possibilities. by letting customers withdraw cash from atms, use cards in shops and pay bills, it suggests that whatever went wrong does not involve the core computer systems underpinning tesco bank. these systems used to be run by rbs but since 2008 tesco has operated independently. security expert james maude, from software company avecto, said tesco's decision to suspend online transactions combined with the information that so many people were hit at once clearly suggests problems with its website. all too often, he said, maintenance or website updates can introduce errors and bugs that were not present before. cyber-thieves are constantly scanning valuable websites to spot changes and will swoop if one emerges. it might also be the case that a third party connected to tesco had a security issue and attackers got in via that route, which has happened in some of the biggest attacks in recent memory. most cybersecurity experts have a very jaundiced view of the world that they often sum up by saying: "everything is broken and there is always a way in." in short, there is no way that any organisation can keep it, and its customers and their data, safe all the time. many organisations now assume they will be breached and set up monitoring systems to spot when that happens, while also training staff to react quickly to fix problems. nik whitfield, from security firm panaseer, said often firms were caught out by vulnerabilities that emerge in software they use rather than through a change they make. it can be hard for organisations to keep across these factors because they use so many software packages.  in addition, some of the bugs are found by malicious hackers who sell them to gangs that want to use them. in these cases, the first an organisation will know about a bug is when it is used against them.  tesco has had problems with some other web-based systems in the past. in 2014, thousands of tesco customers' net accounts were deactivated after login names and passwords were shared online. in that case, tesco said attackers had compiled the data by using details stolen from other sites, because some tesco customers reused passwords. like many other banks, tesco has automatic fraud-spotting systems that keep an eye on accounts and build up a picture of normal activity. it is these kind of systems that can catch you out if you suddenly use your credit or debit card to buy lots of things from lots of different places in just a few minutes.  it is these monitoring systems that are believed to have alerted tesco to the problems that led to it suspending the site and halting transactions. we still do not know the details of what happened so it is difficult to give concrete advice. however, it is worth taking a few simple steps to protect your online account.  first, choose a good password and do not reuse one that you use elsewhere. use the bank's two-factor authentication and keep an eye on the transactions carried out via your account. keep security software on your pc, phone or tablet up-to-date and be on the lookout for phishing emails that capitalise on news about any breach.  james chappell, chief technology officer at computer security service digital shadows, said it was already starting to see cyber-gangs it monitors sending out spam posing as updates from tesco security staff. the gangs are hoping to trick people into handing over their tesco account details to let thieves take advantage. gchq disrupted "hacktivist" communications by using one of their own techniques against them, according to the latest edward snowden leaks. documents from the whistle-blower published by nbc indicate uk cyberspies used a denial of service attack (dos) in 2011 to force a chatroom used by the anonymous collective offline. a spokeswoman for gchq said all the agency's activities were authorised and subject to rigorous oversight. but others say it raises concerns. dr steven murdoch, a security researcher at the university of cambridge, said using a dos attack to overwhelm a computer server with traffic would have risked disrupting other services. "it's quite possible that the server was used for other purposes which would have been entirely unrelated to anonymous," he said. "it's also likely that most of the chat that was going on about anonymous was not to do with hacking because the people who join anonymous are fairly wide-ranging in what they think it is legitimate to do. "some have gone into criminality but many others just go out and organise protests, letter-writing campaigns and other things that are not criminal." campaign group privacy international is also worried. "there is no legislation that clearly authorises gchq to conduct cyber-attacks," said head of research eric king. "so, in the absence of any democratic mechanisms, it appears gchq has granted itself the power to carry out the very same offensive attacks politicians have criticised other states for conducting." the uk government's cyber security strategy document, published in 2011, says officials should take "proactive measures to disrupt threats to our information security", but also notes that any such action should be consistent with freedom of expression and privacy rights. the latest documents are published alongside an article part-written by glenn greenwald.  the journalist is one of only two people reported to have access to all whistle-blower edward snowden's leaked documents. the article highlights that the joint threat research intelligence group (jtrig) is the division identified as being responsible for the dos attack  - a unit whose existence had not previously been publicly disclosed. the documents indicate the unit also spied on and communicated with chatroom users to identify hackers who had stolen information. in one case, agents are said to have tricked a hacker nicknamed p0ke who claimed to have stolen data from the us government. they did this by sending him a link to a bbc article entitled: "who loves the hacktivists?" "sexy," p0ke is alleged to have commented.  but when he clicked the link it is reported that jtrig was able to bypass measures he had taken to hide his identity, although it is not clear how. nbc reports that p0ke - a scandinavian college student - was never arrested despite gchq learning his true name. but the leaks indicate others were imprisoned as a result of jtrig operations.  one paper highlights the case of edward pearson - a hacker known as gzero - who was sentenced to two years in jail in 2012 for illegally acquiring credit and debit card details registered with paypal. a transcript of a chatroom conversation indicates that pearson had contacted gchq agents claiming he knew a hacktivist they were investigating, unaware of the agents' true identity. in addition to anonymous, the documents list lulzsec, the a-team and the syrian cyber army as hacktivist groups gchq was concerned about. in one case it appears simply warning activists that carrying out their own dos attacks was illegal had the desired effect. nbc reports that the notice was posted via facebook, twitter, email, instant messenger and skype.  one alleged gchq document states that one month later 80% of those contacted had stopped using a hacktivist chatroom. but the documents also indicate that gchq was willing to use dos attacks itself as part of an operation codenamed rolling thunder, which prevented hacktivists using a chatroom for 30 hours in september 2011. gchq has a longstanding policy of not commenting on specific intelligence-gathering procedures, but a spokeswoman said all its work was "carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework". even so, one cybersecurity expert said he had mixed feelings about the latest leaks. "we have to remember that cyberspooks within gchq are equally, if not more, skilled than many black-hat hackers, and the tools and techniques they are going to use to fight cybercrime are surely going to be similar to that of the bad guys," said andrew miller, chief operating officer at corero network. "legally, we enter a very grey area here; where members of lulzsec were arrested and incarcerated for carrying out dos attacks, but it seems that jtrig are taking the same approach with impunity." a web attack has been launched against the wikileaks site set up to host leaked us diplomatic cables. the deluge of data launched against the site managed to briefly make it unreachable around 1200 gmt on 30 november. so far no-one has come forward to claim responsibility for the so-called denial-of-service (dos) attack. a similar attack was launched against the main wikileaks site prior to the public release of the first cables. wikileaks revealed that the separate cablegate website was suffering a distributed denial of service (ddos) attack via a message posted to its twitter stream. the cablegate site went live on sunday night and soon after started to suffer occasional downtime.  a ddos attack involves swamping a site with so many requests for access that it becomes overwhelmed.  data gathered by net monitoring firm netcraft showed that the cablegate site was intermittently available around tuesday lunchtime and early afternoon because of the attack. prior to the launch of the site, wikileaks had taken the precaution of hosting it on three separate ip addresses to cope with any attack. "this does not appear to have prevented the current attack from succeeding," wrote paul mutton, a security analyst at netcraft, in a blog post he told the bbc that it was hard to work out what type of attack was under way. at the weekend before the cablegate site went live, a hacktivist known only as the jester threatened to attack wikileaks claiming its leak of cables would endanger us troops.  mr mutton said the latest attack was unlikely to be the work of the jester as he has typically used twitter to announce his targets. something that was not done before the latest attack began. "the cablegate site has only released 281 of the 251,287 leaked cables, so these attacks are likely to be symbolic action more than anything else," said mr mutton. as cablegate came under attack, a separate ongoing assault against the main wikileaks site made it unreachable on tuesday afternoon.  the revenge of a whale or an accidental tragedy? a dramatic retelling of the story that inspired herman melville's classic novel will be hitting our screens on bbc one this sunday - but do whales really attack humans intentionally? sperm whales are relatively placid mammals and very few incidents in modern times suggest otherwise. they mainly feed on squid and rarely attack, apparently only when mistaking other mammals for seals or prey.  in his 1839 book about the natural history of sperm whales, thomas beale, a surgeon aboard a whaleship, described them as "a most timid and inoffensive animal readily endeavouring to escape from the slightest thing which bears an unusual appearance". but dr richard bevan, a zoologist and lecturer at newcastle university, suggests that a sperm whale may remember if it was previously attacked. "i have no doubt that an individual would remember being harpooned and might respond aggressively if it thought that it was threatened," he said. "on the other hand a large vessel like a whaling boat would probably look like a very large threat, even to a full grown sperm whale, so i'd have thought it more likely to have moved away." but 19th century literature seems to suggest otherwise, with numerous stories of sperm whales attacking ships on purpose. but were they fuelled by threat, hunger or, as in melville's classic novel, even revenge? in 1820, a giant sperm whale, apparently 85 feet long (the average is 50ft) attacked a whaleship named the essex, causing her to sink. her crew were left adrift in three whaleboats (lighter boats used in the capture of whales) thousands of miles from land.  alone in the middle of the pacific ocean the men had to decide whether to head for the nearest islands, a thousand miles downwind to the west, or set out on an epic journey of almost three thousand miles to reach the south american mainland.  fear of cannibals forced them to choose south america, but they never made it. of the 21 crew members aboard the essex, just eight members of the crew were rescued after more than 80 days at sea; with an incredible tale of starvation, dehydration and unfathomable, mortal desperation to tell.  two members of the crew wrote accounts of the failed voyage. first mate owen chase's account was a widely circulated story of the time, published just months after his return home. the other, written by cabin boy thomas nickerson 50 years later, was not published, but, remarkably, was discovered in an attic in 1960, 80 years after nickerson's death. their accounts differ in places, but what is indisputable is that they both recall exactly how their supposedly "lucky" ship sank. it was stove by a giant whale. herman melville heard this story, met with the captain of the essex and was inspired to write his classic novel moby dick. moby dick was actually named after a real whale, mocha dick, first spotted by sailors in the 19th century near the island of mocha, near southern chile. whales were often given pet names by sailors, tom and dick were common - though there are no accounts of a harry. mocha dick was an albino whale, described by explorer jerimiah n reynolds as "an old bull whale of prodigious size and strength… white as wool". legend has it that it killed 30 men and was covered in scars and punctured with spears from previous attempts to harpoon it; before eventually being slaughtered in 1838. sometimes described as leviathans, sperm whales truly are creatures of mythical proportions. they have the largest teeth of any whale and live to be more than 60 years old. they can dive deeper than any other sea mammal (around 3km) in order to catch their favourite deep sea food, the elusive squid. but it is the fact that they have the largest brains on earth, ones that are more complex - in certain ways - than those of humans, that is perhaps most surprising. their cerebral cortex is much more convoluted than the human cortex, and they are social creatures with strong bonds, staying in stable social groupings and keeping constant companions throughout their lifespan.  dr lindy weilgart, a research associate in the department of biology at dalhousie university in canada, believes that in order "to remember all their complex social relationships (families, more distantly related kin, non-related group members), they require a good memory". in fact, remembering traumatic past incidents could well have been the trigger for the whale that rammed the essex. "briefly, i do believe a sperm whale is capable of the aggression necessary to attack a ship, especially a mother if her young was threatened," dr weilgart says. "i know whalers in general often harpooned calves but kept them alive so as to attract the rest of the family group which came in aid of the calf." "they then harpooned those adults", she says, a practice that was "particularly cruel". however, dr bevan suggests that while "the cetaceans do have large brains… this is linked to their ability to process sound rather than being linked to what we regard as intelligence". whether they can feel emotions like vengeance, is in dispute. it is possible that the whale changed course underwater at the last minute and unwittingly collided with the ship.  dr per berggren, a lecturer in marine science at newcastle university and specialist in marine mammals, believes this to be nearer the truth.  "it is perhaps more likely that the ship accidentally hit the whale and sustained a leak large enough to sink the vessel." but what is remarkable in the case of the essex sinking, is that the whale came back to strike a second time.  first mate chase recalled: "i turned around and saw him… directly ahead of us, coming down with twice his ordinary speed… with ten-fold fury and vengeance in his aspect.  "the surf flew in all directions about him with the continual violent thrashing of his tail. his head about half out of the water, and in that way he came upon us, and again struck the ship. "the ship brought up as suddenly and violently as if she had struck a rock and trembled for a few minutes like a leaf."  latest research shows that whales are self-aware, sentient and more intelligent than previously thought. they can feel pain and suffering and therefore potentially a level of cognitive function; it is also now thought they can even experience feelings of love. sperm whales do not have many predators, killer whales (orcas) are known to have attacked sperm whales and occasionally sharks; but since the early 1700s by a large the most serious predator of sperm whales has been homo sapiens.  whaling in the 19th century was a lucrative business as whale oil became immensely valuable for lighting oil lamps and making candles and soaps. more than 900 whaleships were out to sea in the mid-1800s, hailing mainly from american ports, with an average voyage length of three or four years.  by the mid 19th century, whale numbers were depleting rapidly. but with the discovery of petroleum in pennsylvania in 1859, the american whaling industry had almost completely disappeared by the start of world war i.  whale hunting is now illegal in most parts of the world (though still practised by some nations such as norway and japan) and concerns about the welfare of whales in captivity are currently making waves in the news.  the documentary film blackfish, about an orca in captivity at seaworld orlando that was involved in several deaths, has recently caused controversy for the theme park. the documentary suggests that keeping the whales in captivity may be causing them to behave psychotically. acts including willie nelson and barenaked ladies have recently cancelled performances at the park in the wake of the film's release. but seaworld has issued a detailed rebuttal of claims in the film. when first mate starbuck declares to captain ahab that "moby dick seeks thee not. it is thou, thou, that madly seekest him!" it's likely he was telling an awful and haunting truth.  whether or not the sperm whale that attacked the whaleship essex on the night of 20 november 1820 did so on purpose, we will never know. but the fascinating and undying rumour of his revenge certainly lives on. the whale will be shown on bbc one on sunday 22nd december at 9pm. thousands of websites hosted by one of the world's biggest internet domain registrars and web hosts, godaddy, were reported down on monday. "status alert: hey, all. we're aware of the trouble people are having with our site. we're working on it," the website host said. one twitter feed allegedly linked to anonymous claimed credit for a hack but the cause is far from clear. godaddy said later that most websites were back online. it said on its twitter account: "we're working out the last few kinks for our site & control centers. no customer data compromised." earlier, the company, which hosts millions of sites around the world, apologised for the frustration of some of its customers.  one twitter feed, @anonymousown3r, had said that "all servers" of go daddy had been taken down. the account of anonymousown3r identifies itself as the "security leader" of the group, but said in subsequent tweets that the attack was carried out alone and not on behalf of the organisation. "it is not anonymous coletive it's only me don't use anonymous coletive name on it, just my name," the person said in the feed. another went: "i'm taking godaddy down bacause well i'd like to test how the cyber security is safe and for more reasons that i can not talk now." a spokesperson for godaddy told the bbc that the firm was directing all inquiries to its @godaddy twitter feed. "you could say it's been a busy day," he said. rick ferguson, director of security research at the computer firm, trend micro, told the bbc that, while it was a "blunt instrument", a denial-of-service attack was very effective. "what i've seen and heard is it was a dos attack on the dns infrastructure," he said. the domain name system, in essence, translates the readable computer hostnames into ip addresses. "if it is true, then that has not been constructed to scale up in a sizeable ddos. the godaddy site can cope with a sizeable amount of traffic, but its dns may not have been. "of course, that's speculation and without confirmation from godaddy on the nature of the attack, we don't yet know the full facts," he added. one twitter feed that has been used to claim credit for anonymous attacks in the past made reference to the disruption and then said: "please redirect your godaddy hate to @anonymousown3r says is the 'leader' of anonymous. #derp have #lulz with that." anonymous is a loosely organised collective of hackers and hacking advocates. godaddy provides hosting services around the world and said it had $1.1bn (£687m) in sales in 2011. attacks on major sites under the banner of anonymous have become much more common. in early june, members of anonymous staged protests in 16 cities in india against what they said was internet censorship in the country and in april, anonymous also claimed responsibility for defacing almost 500 websites in china. lulzsec, an off-shoot of anonymous, gained notoriety last year with a string of high-profile attacks on websites and businesses such as one on sony pictures in which thousands of personal details were published online. bitstamp - one of the world's largest bitcoin exchanges - has halted withdrawals after coming under cyber-attack. the slovenia-based firm said the culprits had exploited a bug in the virtual currency's underlying software to carry out the assault. it is the second exchange to suspend operations. tokyo's mtgox took a similar measure on friday. a third, bulgaria's btc-e, has warned that some transactions may be delayed. like bitstamp, it cited a denial-of-service (dos) attack as the cause. the bitcoin foundation - a group of developers who maintain and promote the cryptographic code on which the currency relies - said that it was creating workarounds and fixes to tackle the issue. it added that people who had funds stored with the affected exchanges should know that their savings were safe, albeit "tied up" for the time being. "this is a denial-of-service attack; whoever is doing this is not stealing coins, but is succeeding in preventing some transactions from confirming," wrote gavin andresen, chief scientist at the foundation. "it's important to note that dos attacks do not affect people's bitcoin wallets or funds." the cause of the problem is an issue called transaction malleability. it involves someone changing the cryptographic code - known as a transaction hash - used to create an id for the exchange of funds before it is recorded in the blockchain - a database of every transaction carried out in the currency. on monday, mtgox had suggested that this technique could be used to fool its systems into repeatedly making a payout because it would seem that it had not occurred. the bitcoin foundation's initial response was that transaction malleability had been known about since 2011, and that mtgox should have prepared for this when developing its own customised software, which was now proving vulnerable. "this is something that cannot be corrected overnight," wrote mr andresen. but while other exchanges are not complaining about the risk of making unauthorised payouts, it appears their systems can become overwhelmed if they receive too many "mutated versions" of the transaction ids. "this is a denial-of-service attack made possible by some misunderstandings in bitcoin wallet implementations," said bitstamp's blog. "these misunderstandings have simple solutions that are being implemented as we speak, and we're confident everything will be back to normal shortly." the bitcoin foundation now says its members and developers from a number of exchanges are working "collectively and collaboratively" to tackle the problem and allow withdrawals to resume. one bitcoin is currently trading for about $665 (£402). that is well below the $830 level it was at last thursday, reflecting investors' concern at the news. however, one expert said the virtual currency should emerge from the attacks more robust than before. "obviously it's a bit more serious than was initially thought - it was originally believed that it was just a problem at mtgox because of the way they had set up their systems," emily spaven, editor of the news site coindesk, told the bbc. "the view from developers is that the exchanges should be processing bitcoin withdrawals again within 48-72 hours, though the wider issue of transaction malleability will take longer to address. "it's been a bit of a wake-up call to get this issue fixed. i suppose they previously thought it wasn't that big a deal." a british man's military training helped him get his family to safety after his wife was shot at by a group in a brazilian slum, his mother said. eloise dixon, 46, from gravesend, was in a car with her husband and children in angra dos reis on sunday when the attack happened, according to reports. ms dixon, 46, was shot twice, once in the abdomen, and is now recovering. max dixon, 46, a bromley firefighter and former paratrooper "dealt with the situation calmly," hazel dixon said. "he just wanted to get out of it as quickly as possible - to the nearest hospital. "he told me the car was riddled with bullets," she added. the attack occurred in the first week of their family holiday. the couple had been travelling in the car with their three children isabella, 13, holly, eight, and seven-year-old alice. it is believed a language mix-up led the family, from hayes, south-east london, into the agua santa neighbourhood - a coastal resort about 90 miles (145 km) from rio de janeiro. authorities said a group approached the car and told the family to get out, but the dixons did not understand the request.  the group then reportedly opened fire. ms dixon said her daughter-in-law, a part-time classroom assistant at a primary school in hayes, was lucky to be alive.  she said the family, who travelled a lot and liked to go to adventurous places, were just one week into a three week holiday when the attack happened. the 46-year-old underwent two hours of surgery and is now in a stable condition waiting to be transferred to a private hospital in rio de janeiro. a man suspected of involvement in a "frenzied" stabbing at a birmingham bedsit is being hunted by police. keith wagstaffe is believed to have "played a part" in the attack in arden street, west midlands police said. "this was a frenzied attack and the victim has suffered, we believe, seven stab wounds to his body," det sgt simon hanlon said. two men have been arrested and bailed over the attack, which happened on 30 september. the 43-year-old victim has been placed in an induced coma in hospital and is in a critical condition, police said. officers said it was understood several people forced entry into the multi-occupancy property, at about 13:00 bst.  mr wagstaffe, 29 and of cookspiece walk in stechford, is suspected of attempted murder. det sgt hanlon added: "our inquiries suggest mr wagstaffe knows the victim and that this was a targeted attack. we do not believe anything was stolen from the flat. "we've made good progress with two suspects already arrested and a vehicle we believe used in the attack seized for forensic examination. "if anyone knows where mr wagstaffe is then please contact us straight away. do not approach him, just call us." follow bbc west midlands on facebook, twitter and instagram. send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk  the conservatives plan to open a second headquarters in leeds, the party's co-chairman has announced.  the new hq - a northern counterpart to conservative campaign headquarters in london -  is expected to open next year, amanda milling said, as she opened the party's virtual conference.  some mps have urged the pm to set out a broad post-brexit vision for the party. it comes as boris johnson has promised low-deposit mortgages to help young people get onto the housing ladder. in an interview with the daily telegraph ahead of his party's four-day conference, the prime minister said he had asked ministers to work up plans for encouraging long-term fixed-rate mortgages with 5% deposits. "we need mortgages that will help people really get on the housing ladder even if they have only a very small amount to pay by way of deposit, the 95% mortgages," he said. "i think it could be absolutely revolutionary, particularly for young people." worried tories pining for the 'old boris'everybody got 'complacent' over virus, suggests pm the conservative campaign headquarters, in westminster, london, is where general election campaigns are run.  it was known for many years as conservative central office. according to bbc political correspondent iain watson, it houses press officers who undertake the more political tasks which civil servants cannot do - including attacking opponents and rebutting opponents' attacks.  it also liaises with the "voluntary party" - the grassroots foot soldiers - and raises funds for national campaigning. the conservatives argue that the new leeds headquarters will reinforce their commitment to deliver for those in northern constituencies who voted for the party for the first time at the general election in december.  "this new headquarters will provide the party with a base at the heart of the blue wall," ms milling said. also speaking at the conference, cabinet office minister michael gove said the government wanted to move more civil service jobs outside of london.  "far too many government jobs tend to be in the westminster and whitehall village," he said. "we have an amazing civil service and it has drawn its resources and people from lots of different communities - i think we now need to give back to those communities as well." meanwhile, downing street has set out the details of an independent review of transport connections across the uk.  the review, led by network rail chairman sir peter hendy, will look at improving road and rail networks and will also examine the "cost, practicality and demand" of building a bridge or tunnel between northern ireland and scotland. the transport study will set out advice on a "wide range of possible options" to improve the quality and availability of links across the uk, downing street said. one of the stated aims of the tories' virtual conference is to demonstrate that the party is listening to those voters who said they were merely lending their support to the conservatives. there will be a lot of talk about "levelling up" - in other words, doing more to spread investment and opportunity beyond london and the south east. but some recently-elected conservative mps believe the term is vague and not easily understood by voters. one of the 2019 intake told our correspondent: "we need to put flesh on the bones of this agenda - it has be about more than a couple of shiny new rail stations." another said the prime minister had to "raise his sights" and provide a longer-term vision, amid concerns over narrowing polls.  mr johnson told the telegraph that he was determined to press ahead with a "massive domestic agenda" and deliver on conservative manifesto promises, despite the ongoing coronavirus crisis.  the prime minister has promised to create "generation buy" with low-deposit mortgages to help get young people onto the housing ladder. he has also insisted he remains a low-tax, libertarian conservative who will pay for the cost of the pandemic through a "free market-led recovery". meanwhile, mr johnson dismissed newspaper reports that he and chancellor rishi sunak were now rivals as "genuinely untrue".  "we are as one," he said. asked about his coronavirus strategy, the prime minister said "all of this is being kept under constant review".  "if we make progress, all of these measures are capable of being changed," he said.  new rules, such as restricting gatherings to a maximum of six people and limiting opening hours for hospitality venues, are among the national measures that have been introduced around the uk. uk coronavirus cases up by 6,968 on fridaywhat are the covid rules where you live? mr johnson also offered some weight loss advice, after losing more than two stone following his experience contracting coronavirus earlier this year. according to the paper, he now weighs 15st 8lbs - having been 17st 6lbs - and said his top tip was "eat less, move more, weigh less".  mr johnson has previously revealed he has hired a personal trainer to lose weight after acknowledging he was "too fat" when he caught covid-19. analysis by alice aitken, bbc reality check you may remember that the conservatives pledged to build 40 new hospitals in their 2019 election manifesto.  on the eve of the party conference, the prime minister confirmed £3.7bn in funding for the project - an increase on the £2.8bn previously announced. six hospital trusts had already been promised £2.7bn in funding while 21 others were given a share of £100m in seed funding to develop proposals. on friday those trusts were told they will all be fully-funded to deliver 25 new hospitals. a new hospital at shotley bridge in durham has been added to the list and the government is also inviting bids for a further eight schemes. they say these new schemes mean 48 hospitals will be delivered by 2030. test and trace exposed: panorama hears from whistleblowers working on the coronavirus tracking systemlove life: fancy an escape? watch the addictive new series starring anna kendrick mexico has become the country with the third highest death toll with coronavirus, with only the us and brazil recording greater numbers.  it has now suffered at least 46,688 deaths during the pandemic, with a total of 424,637 infections.  previously the united kingdom had the third highest toll, and registered 46,204 deaths as of friday. the world health organization (who) has warned the effects of the pandemic will be felt "for decades to come". in mexico, local authorities have previously said they believe the real number of infections is likely to be significantly higher than those reported. mexico healthcare workers attacked for doing their jobmexico factory staff question 'essential work' president andrés manuel lópez obrador is eager to restart the country's flagging economy. his government announced a phased plan to lift restrictions in may. in mexico city, the capital, hundreds of thousands of factory workers returned to their jobs in mid-june. some non-essential businesses were then allowed to reopen at the start of july in the city, the epicentre of the country's epidemic. but critics say mr obrador was slow to impose lockdown measures and has lifted them too quickly. most of the mexican economy stopped on 23 march but some industries that were declared key to the functioning of the nation and were exempt from the restrictions. on friday ten state governors chastised the government's handling of the outbreak and called for the resignation of assistant health secretary hugo lópez-gatell - an epidemiologist and mexico's coronavirus tsar. more than 17.5 million coronavirus cases have been reported worldwide, along with nearly 679,000 deaths, according to a tally by johns hopkins university.  the us has recorded at least 153,415 deaths and brazil 92,475. some countries have tried to emerge from lockdown but in many, cases are rising again, reports the bbc's geneva correspondent, imogen foulkes.  some, like spain and the uk, are partially reintroducing restrictions or delaying plans for their easing.  more measures were expected to be relaxed in england this weekend but prime minister boris johnson said on friday that this would be delayed for at least two weeks. with cases continuing to rise around the world, who head dr tedros ghebreyesus called the pandemic a "once-in-a-century health crisis, the effects of which will be felt for decades to come". "although vaccine development is happening at record speed, we must learn to live with this virus, and we must fight it with the tools we have," he said on friday. a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exercisehope and loss: your coronavirus storieslook-up tool: check cases in your areastress: how to look after your mental health a 19-year-old had "multiple stab wounds" in what is believed to have been a targeted attack.  he was hurt in an altercation in fox crescent, chelmsford at about 22:45 bst on tuesday. the victim told essex police he had been walking in the direction of kingswood shops when he was stopped and attacked by two men. he is being treated in hospital for injuries to his hands, back and chest but they are not life-threatening. police have called for witnesses to come forward. the force said it is believed the alleged attackers, who were black, left in a car. "at this time, we are treating this as a targeted attack and do not believe that there is a risk to the wider public," a spokesman said. eyes are everywhere online.  the websites you visit often track where you came from and watch where you head off to next.  a vpn - or virtual private network - helps you browse the internet more anonymously by routing your traffic through a server that is not your point of origin.  it is a bit like switching cars to shake off someone who is tailing you.  there are plenty of companies offering services with varying degrees of security and varying degrees of cost, but if you are willing to roll your sleeves up and get technical with some basic coding and a £30 raspberry pi computer, you can build your own vpn server at home.  it won't give you the option of appearing to be from somewhere else but you can use it to connect external devices like a smartphone to browse the internet more securely through your home network, and access shared files and media on your home computer.  make no mistake, this is not a quick and easy process.  on bbc click i have shared some tips from my own experience setting up a diy vpn server.  below is a step-by-step guide you will need to follow to the letter, symbol and space if you want to follow in my footsteps. to follow this guide you will need: 1 x raspberry pi/pi 2 1 x 8gb micro sd card1 x sd card reader1 x 5 volt mini usb power supply (a suitable phone charger will do)1 x hdmi monitor (your tv or computer monitor)1 x usb keyboard1 x ethernet network cable prepare to install your operating system insert the micro sd card in your card reader. if you are reusing an old sd card make sure it is fully formatted to remove any old files using the free tool at http://sdcard.org install raspbian on your raspberry pi  download noobs (new out of the box software) from the raspberry pi website (https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/). this is an easy operating system installation manager.  open the .zip you downloaded and select all files, then just drag and drop them onto your sd card. insert the sd card in the raspberry pi then connect a monitor, keyboard and power cable. connecting the power will cause the raspberry pi to boot up and the green and red leds on the board should light up.  if the files are copied properly onto the sd card the green light will start flashing as the computer reads the data.  after a few seconds you will see a window open on the monitor with a range of operating systems to install - use the arrow keys on the keyboard to choose raspbian and hit enter to install. n.b. if you have trouble getting the noobs installation manager to work, you can also install raspbian by copying the disk image of the operating system onto your micro sd card. follow the instructions at https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/ to do this. change the default password before you go any further, make sure you change the default password, or anyone who knows the default will be able to access your home network.  you can do this from the options screen you are shown the first time you boot up your raspberry pi after raspbian is installed. when you next reboot your raspberry pi the login will be "pi" and the password whatever you have set. give your raspberry pi a static ip address the ip address is what tells devices where to find your raspberry pi on your home network.  networks usually issue a dynamic ip address, which can change each time you power up the device. if you want to be able to consistently connect to your raspberry pi from outside your home network you need to fix its ip address so that it is always the same - a static ip address. connect your raspberry pi to your router with an ethernet cable. at command prompt type:  ifconfig a bunch of information will come up and you need to note down what it says for your set against the following: inet addr [current ip address]  bcast [broadcast range]  mask [subnet mask]  next at the command prompt type:  sudo route -n  this tells you information about your router. note down: gateway destination  you now have all the information you need about your current ip set up and can edit the network configuration file to make the ip static. at command prompt type:  sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces look for the line that reads "iface eth0 inet dhcp" or "iface eth0 inet manual". the "dhcp" bit is requesting a dynamic ip or if your file says "manual" it is a manual setting, so use the arrow keys on your keyboard to move the cursor so you can delete this and replace it with "static". next put your cursor at the end of this line and hit enter, then add the following lines directly below the line you just altered, filling the [square brackets] with the information you just noted down. address [your current ip address] netmask [your subnet mask] network [your destination] broadcast [your broadcast range] gateway [your gateway] to save the file press ctrl and x together, when prompted to save type "y" and hit enter to accept the file name without changing it. at the command prompt type:  sudo reboot  your raspberry pi will now restart with the new, static ip address. set up an easy control system to save switching around cables if you do not have a spare hdmi monitor and keyboard you can download a free utility that lets you control your raspberry pi through a pop up window on another computer. this is called an ssh. the tool is called putty (j.mp/dlputty). double click the putty.exe file you download and it opens a dialogue box where you can enter the new static ip address you have given your raspberry pi. the first time you do this it will ask you to confirm accessing the device. you can now login and do everything you need to through this dialogue box on your computer, which means your raspberry pi never needs a monitor or keyboard to keep running. this is known as running it "headless". update your raspberry pi  one last piece of housekeeping to ensure you are running the latest software and drivers. at command prompt type:  sudo apt-get update wait for the updates to finish downloading and then type:  sudo apt-get upgrade wait until the upgrade completes. you are now ready to make your vpn the raspbian operating system we just installed comes with openvpn ready to unpack, which is the software we will be using to make our vpn. at command prompt type:  sudo apt-get install openvpn you will be asked to confirm your instruction then the software will be unpacked and installed. generating keys just like the unique key that unlocks your front door, your vpn needs keys generated to make sure that only authorised devices can connect to it.  openvpn comes with easy_rsa, a simple package for using the rsa encryption method to generate your unique keys.  the next series of commands need to be done in the root directory. you will notice at the moment the command prompt sits in a directory labelled as 'pi@raspberrypi: ~ $'.  typing "sudo" before a command tells the operating system to execute the command in the root directory, but if you want to save yourself some typing you can go ahead and type:  sudo -s you will now see your command prompt sits at 'root@raspberrypi:' now, at the command type on one line:  cp -r /usr/share/doc/openvpn/examples/easy-rsa/2.0 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa make sure you have spaces in the right places (before /usr and /etc). this instruction copies all of the files from the easy-rsa 2.0 directory into a directory in your openvpn installation.  n.b. you can copy lines of text using right-click and then when you right click inside the putty window it should paste, saving you a lot of typing. be aware though, some formatting errors can occur when copying and pasting large blocks of text so if you do not get the result you are expecting, resort to typing the details in by hand. next type:  cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa this changes the directory your command prompt sits at to your openvpn/easy-rsa directory. you now need to edit the text in the file we just copied over. nano is a simple text editor in raspbian you are going to see a lot of over the next few pages. to open the file inside this text editor type: nano /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/vars in the text that opens find the line that begins: export easy_rsa= you need to move the cursor down to edit this line to read:  export easy_rsa="/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa" n.b. make sure you remove any extraneous speech marks as anything other than the exact text above here will stop your keys from saving in the right place. next move your cursor down until you see the line: export key_size=1024 if you want to be extra secure you can change the value here to 2048 bit encryption, although the key you eventually build will take significantly longer to generate. if you choose to do this edit that line to read: export key_size=2048 keep scrolling to the end of the file and you will see a bunch of export parameters such as country, province and city etc. you can choose to change these to set new defaults (this will potentially save you some typing in various later stages), but doing so will not affect the workings of your vpn. type ctrl and x then y then enter to save this file. build your certificates you are now set up to build the certificates your vpn will use to grant authority to devices you want to connect with. to open the easy-rsa directory, at the command prompt type: cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa next type: source ./vars this loads the vars document you edited earlier. next type: ./clean-all  this will remove any previous keys in the system.  next type: ./build-ca this final line builds your certificate authority. the raspberry pi will now ask you to complete some additional export values, like country, province, city, organisation etc. (if you changed these in the previous stage you will see your own choices already set as default).  it is not necessary for these values to be accurate so just hit enter each instance to use default value if you are feeling slack. name the server once you have entered through the fields and returned to the command prompt you need to name your server. call it whatever you like but do not forget it. type: ./build-key-server [servername] … replacing [servername] with your choice of name. you will now be given some more fields to enter values. you can change these or leave them as the defaults, but pay attention to three fields:   common name must be the server name you picked.  a challenge password? must be left blank. sign the certificate? [y/n] obviously, you must type "y." finally when prompted with the question: 1 out of 1 certificate requests certified, commit? [y/n] type "y" build keys for each user your server is now set up and you need to build keys for all the devices you want to be able to connect.  you can cut corners here and just build one key to use on all devices. only one device can connect using each key at a time though, so if you want simultaneous connections you will need a different key for each one. to assign a user a key type: ./build-key-pass [username] … substituting the [username] with your desired text - for example to make a key to connect my android to the vpn i chose the name kateandroid you will get some more prompts now: enter pem pass phrase … choose a password you will remember! it asks you to input this twice to eliminate errors. a challenge password? must be left blank. sign the certificate? [y/n]  hit "y" next type: cd keys then (using my example username, which you should change for your own):  openssl rsa -in kateandroid.key -des3 -out kateandroid.3des.key  this last line adds an extra layer of encryption to make it harder for hackers to break in. you will be asked to enter pass phrase for kateandroid.key - this is the phrase you entered in the previous step. you will then be asked to enter and repeat a new pem pass phrase for the des3 key. i used the same pass phrase for both so you only have one to remember. you will need the 3des.key pass phrase at the end of this process when you import your files to your devices. repeat these steps for all the usernames you want to build a key for. you have now created your "client certificates". type: cd .. generate the diffie-hellman key exchange.  this is the code that lets two entities with no prior knowledge of one another share secret keys over a public server. type: ./build-dh the screen will slowly fill with dots as the key is built from random numbers. it will take at least an hour if you upped your encryption to 2048-bit. if you left it at 1024-bit it could take as little as five minutes. denial of service (dos) attack protection openvpn protects against this kind of attack by generating a static pre-shared hash-based message authentication code (hmac) key. this means the server will not try to authenticate an access request if it does not detect this key. to generate the static hmac key type: openvpn --genkey --secret keys/ta.key n.b. if you are using copy and paste it probably will not work on this line as the double "-" seems not to translate in the same way if you do not type it in. configuring your server now you have created all the locks and keys you need to tell your raspberry pi where you want to put the doors and who you want to give the keys to - essentially instructing the openvpn which keys to use, where you are going to be connecting from and which ip address and port to use.  to do this you must create a server configuration file. at command prompt type: nano /etc/openvpn/server.conf  this opens an empty file.  fill it with this text, taking care to change the details where indicated with a comment in # caps lock. (placing a "#" in front of a sentence in the code like this tells the system it is a comment and to ignore it when building the program).  also when changing the your server name sections i refer to the server name that was given to the 'build-key-server' command earlier on. local 192.168.2.0 # swap this number with your raspberry pi ip address dev tun  proto udp  port 1194  ca /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/ca.crt  cert /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/xx.crt # swap xx with your server name key /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/xx.key # swap xx with your server name dh /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/dh1024.pem # if you changed your encryption to 2048, change that here server 10.8.0.0 255.255.255.0  # server and remote endpoints  ifconfig 10.8.0.1 10.8.0.2  # add route to client routing table for the openvpn server  push "route 10.8.0.1 255.255.255.255"  # add route to client routing table for the openvpn subnet  push "route 10.8.0.0 255.255.255.0"  # your local subnet  push "route 192.168.0.10 255.255.255.0" # swap the ip number with your raspberry pi ip address # set primary domain name server address to the soho router  # if your router does not do dns, you can use google dns 8.8.8.8  push "dhcp-option dns 192.168.0.1" # this should already match your own router address and should not need to be changed # override the client default gateway by using 0.0.0.0/1 and  # 128.0.0.0/1 rather than 0.0.0.0/0. this has the benefit of  # overriding but not wiping out the original default gateway.  push "redirect-gateway def1"  client-to-client  duplicate-cn  keepalive 10 120  tls-auth /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/ta.key 0  cipher aes-128-cbc  comp-lzo  user nobody  group nogroup  persist-key  persist-tun  status /var/log/openvpn-status.log 20  log /var/log/openvpn.log  verb 1 hit ctrl and x then y and enter to save. there is one last edit to make in the server configuration files to make sure your raspberry pi knows you want it to forward internet traffic through our new network.  type: nano /etc/sysctl.conf near the top it says, "uncomment the next line to enable packet forwarding for ipv4."  you want to remove the "#" from the start of the next line to inform openvpn you want it to take that text into consideration.  the line should then read: net.ipv4.ip_forward=1 hit ctrl and x, then y and enter to save. finally you need to action the change you just made in the sysctl.conf file. to do this type: sysctl -p you have now made a functioning server that can access the internet. pass through the firewall raspbian has a built-in firewall that will block incoming connections, so we need to tell it to allow traffic from openvpn to pass through. to create a file that will run each time you start up your raspberry pi issuing this permission type: nano /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh inside this new file type: #!/bin/sh  iptables -t nat -a postrouting -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o eth0 -j snat --to-source 192.168.0.10  # swap the ip number with your raspberry pi ip address ctrl and x then y and enter to save. newly created files are not executable by default, so we will need to change the permissions and ownership of this file you just created. to do this type: chmod 700 /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh  then:  chown root /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh this script gives openvpn permission to breach the firewall and we now need to add it into the interfaces setup code so it runs on boot. type: nano /etc/network/interfaces find the line that says: "iface eth0 inet static." we want to add a line below the list of numbers that follow it. this line needs to be added at an indent so hit tab first: pre-up /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh ctrl and x then y and enter to save. finally, reboot your raspberry pi by typing:  reboot n.b. each time you reboot your raspberry pi you will need to relaunch putty to connect to it. ensure you have a static public ip address we have created locks and keys for devices to use to connect to your vpn, but before we hand those keys out we need to tell them where to find the front door. this is your public ip address, which should be kept a secret as it identifies your location on the internet. you can find out your public ip by asking google. just type "what's my ip address?" into the search box. if this address changes each time you log on you do not have a static ip address so will need to use a dynamic domain name system (ddns) service to give yourself a domain name to put in place of the ip address.  there is a free service at https://www.changeip.com then on your raspberry pi, you need to run something called ddclient to update your ddns registry automatically.  at the command prompt type: sudo apt-get install ddclient this will launch a wizard for configuring ddclient. don't worry too much about what you enter here as we will be entering the config file straight away. to edit the ddclient configuration with the correct setting type: sudo nano /etc/ddclient.conf  every service will have slightly different configuration, - if you are using changeip.com this blog post will tell you how to edit your settings successfully https://blogdotmegajasondotcom.wordpress.com/2011/03/14/use-ddclient-with-changeip-com/ ctrl and x then y and enter to save. finally, to set this program running type: sudo ddclient n.b. if you reboot your raspberry pi you'll need to type "sudo ddclient" to start running it again.   create profile scripts for the devices you want to connect we have created keys for clients (computers and devices) to use to connect to your vpn, but we have not told the clients where to find the server, how to connect, or which key to use.  if you created several different client keys for each of the devices you want to grant access, it would be a lot of trouble to generate a new configuration file for each client from scratch.  luckily eric jodoin of the sans institute has written a script to generate them automatically.  first type:  sudo nano /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/default.txt  fill in the blank text file with the following:  client  dev tun  proto udp  remote [your public ip address] 1194  #replace your dynamic dns value from changeip.com resolv-retry infinite  nobind  persist-key  persist-tun  mute-replay-warnings  ns-cert-type server  key-direction 1  cipher aes-128-cbc  comp-lzo  verb 1  mute 20  ctrl and x then y and enter to save. next, to create the script that makes your profile keys type: nano /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/makeovpn.sh  in this file you need to add the text that jodoin wrote to create the script: #!/bin/bash  # default variable declarations  default="default.txt"  fileext=".ovpn"  crt=".crt"  key=".3des.key"  ca="ca.crt"  ta="ta.key"  #ask for a client name  echo "please enter an existing client name:" read name  #1st verify that client's public key exists  if [ ! -f $name$crt ]; then   echo "[error]: client public key certificate not found: $name$crt"   exit  fi  echo "client's cert found: $name$cr"  #then, verify that there is a private key for that client  if [ ! -f $name$key ]; then   echo "[error]: client 3des private key not found: $name$key"   exit  fi  echo "client's private key found: $name$key" #confirm the ca public key exists  if [ ! -f $ca ]; then   echo "[error]: ca public key not found: $ca"   exit  fi  echo "ca public key found: $ca"  #confirm the tls-auth ta key file exists  if [ ! -f $ta ]; then   echo "[error]: tls-auth key not found: $ta"   exit  fi  echo "tls-auth private key found: $ta"  #ready to make a new .opvn file - start by populating with the default file  cat $default > $name$fileext  #now, append the ca public cert  echo "<ca>" >> $name$fileext  cat $ca >> $name$fileext  echo "</ca>" >> $name$fileext #next append the client public cert  echo "<cert>" >> $name$fileext  cat $name$crt | sed -ne '/-begin certificate-/,/-end certificate-/p' >> $name$fileext  echo "</cert>" >> $name$fileext  #then, append the client private key  echo "<key>" >> $name$fileext  cat $name$key >> $name$fileext  echo "</key>" >> $name$fileext  #finally, append the ta private key  echo "<tls-auth>" >> $name$fileext  cat $ta >> $name$fileext  echo "</tls-auth>" >> $name$fileext  echo "done! $name$fileext successfully created." #script written by eric jodoin \ no newline at end of file ctrl and x then y and enter to save. n.b. i was not able to successfully copy and paste the entire script accurately in one go, but taking it one section at a time worked no problem). next you need to give this script permission to run. type:  cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/ the to give it root privileges type: chmod 700 makeovpn.sh finally, execute the script with:  ./makeovpn.sh as it runs, it will ask you to input the usernames names of the clients for you generated keys for earlier (in my case kateandroid). type that when prompted and you should see the line: done! kateandroid.ovpn successfully created. repeat this step for each additional username you added client.  export your client keys for use on the connecting devices  you now need to copy those keys onto the devices you want to use them. if you are using putty on a windows machine you can use a software package called winscp to do this. for mac, try fugu.  first, to grant yourself read/write access to the folder at the command prompt type:  chmod 777 /etc/openvpn chmod 777 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa chmod 777 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys chmod 777 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/[clientname].ovpn be sure to undo this when you're done copying files by typing: chmod 600 /etc/openvpn and repeating for each step with the chmod 600 command, which removes read/write access again. you can now launch the software you are using to copy the files off your raspberry pi to navigate to the openvpn folder and copy the files labelled "kateandroid.ovpn" etc. you can also open the command prompt on the machine in your network you would like to copy the files to and type: scp pi@[ip-address-of-your-pi]:/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/[clientname].ovpn [clientname].ovpn install the openvpn connect app on your device you are now ready to download and install the openvpn connect app on your android or iphone - they are available through the stores as a free download. you will need to import the profile keys you just made as the final piece of the vpn connection puzzle. when prompted for a pass phrase here it is the 3des.key one you will need to enter. for ios use itunes to add the .ovpn file to the openvpn connect app. when you launch the app on your phone you will now get the option of installing that profile and making the connection. for android connect your android device to your computer with a usb cable. navigate to the downloads folder on your handset and paste the .ovpn file there.  when you launch the app on your handset you can now tap the menu dropdown in the top right corner, select import>import profile from sd card then navigate to the downloads folder and choose to import the file and make the connection. one more thing after all this is done, if your phone still can't connect to the openvpn server you might need to adjust the firewall on your router to do port-forwarding of port 1194 to the raspberry pi. you'll need to follow the instructions from your isp to access the router and complete this step. thanks to : https://twitter.com/zoodor for debugging this guide. the us launched a cyber-attack on iranian weapons systems on thursday as president trump pulled out of air strikes on the country, us reports say. the cyber-attack disabled computer systems controlling rocket and missile launchers, the washington post said. it was in retaliation for the shooting down of a us drone as well as attacks on oil tankers that the us has blamed iran for, the new york times said. there is no independent confirmation of damage to iranian systems. the us is set to impose further sanctions on iran that president trump has described as "major". he said the sanctions were needed to prevent tehran from obtaining nuclear weapons, and economic pressure would be maintained unless tehran changed course. iran nuclear crisis in 300 wordsus-iran relations: a brief historyhow us sanctions have hit iran speaking in jerusalem, us national security adviser john bolton said the details of the new sanctions were likely to be announced on monday. nobody had granted iran "a hunting licence in the middle east," he added. tensions between the us and iran have risen since the us last year pulled out of a 2015 nuclear deal between iran and world powers and reinstated sanctions, triggering economic meltdown in iran. last week iran said it would exceed internationally agreed limits on its nuclear programme. mr trump has said he does not want war with iran, but warned the country would face "obliteration" if conflict broke out. the attack had been planned for several weeks, the sources told us media outlets, and was suggested as a way of responding to the mine attacks on tankers in the gulf of oman. it was aimed at weapons systems used by iran's islamic revolutionary guard corps (irgc), which shot down the us drone last thursday and which the us says also attacked the tankers. both the washington post and ap news agency said the cyber-attack had disabled the systems. the new york times said it was intended to take the systems offline for a period of time. on saturday the us department for homeland security warned that iran was stepping up its own cyber-attacks on the us. christopher krebs, the director of the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency, said "malicious cyberactivity" was being directed at us industries and government agencies by "iranian regime actors and their proxies". 'stop attacks,' uk minister urges iranwhy the whatsapp spies may have eyes on iranus-russia clash over power grid 'hack attacks' they were using "destructive 'wiper' attacks", he said, using tactics such as "spear phishing, password spraying and credential stuffing" in a bid to take control of entire networks. iran has also been trying to hack us naval ship systems, the washington post reported. he hasn't commented on the cyber-attack reports. on friday he said he had pulled out of launching conventional strikes on iran because he had been told that 150 iranians would be killed. on saturday he said he was open to talks with the iranians. "if iran wants to become a prosperous nation... it's ok with me," mr trump said. "but they're never going to do it if they think in five or six years they're going to have nuclear weapons." "let's make iran great again," he added, echoing his campaign slogan from the 2016 presidential election. the reinstatement of us sanctions last year - particularly those imposed on the energy, shipping and financial sectors - caused foreign investment to dry up and hit oil exports. the sanctions bar us companies from trading with iran, but also with foreign firms or countries that are dealing with iran. this has led to shortages of imported goods and products that are made with raw materials from abroad, most notably babies' nappies.  the plunging value of the rial has also affected the cost of locally produced staples such as meat and eggs, which have soared in price. iran's irgc said the drone's downing was a "clear message" to the us that iran's borders were "our red line". but us military officials maintain the drone was in international airspace over the strait of hormuz at the time. amir ali hajizadeh, a high-ranking officer in the irgc, said another military aircraft, carrying 35 passengers, had been flying close to the drone. "we could have shot down that one too, but we did not," he said. a judge in brazil has ruled that a film depicting jesus as gay must be removed from the tv streaming service netflix. the film, the first temptation of christ, infuriated fervent christians in the country. two million people signed a petition calling for it to be axed, and the production company was attacked with molotov cocktails last month. in the ruling against netflix, the judge said: "the right to freedom of expression... is not absolute". however, the ban is only temporary while a final decision is made.  the parody film, which was run as a christmas special, was created by brazilian youtube comedy group porta dos fundos.  bolsonaro: brazil must not become 'gay tourism paradise' many of the country's conservative christians were angered by the portrayal of jesus bringing home a presumed boyfriend to meet his family.  on christmas eve, a group attacked porta dos fundos's office in rio de janeiro with fire bombs.  one man suspected of having been part of the attack has fled to russia, and interpol are working to arrest him. a judge in rio de janeiro ordered netflix to take the film down, the bbc's daniel gallas reports from são paulo. judge benedicto abicair said his temporary decision would appease furious christians until a final decision is made by a higher court. "exhibiting the 'artistic production'... may cause graver and more irreparable damage than its suspension," the judge wrote.  neither netflix nor porta dos fundos has yet commented. brazil's far-right president jair bolsonaro once said he would rather have a dead son than a gay son. his son, eduardo bolsonaro, called the netflix show "garbage" on twitter, adding that porta dos fundos "do not represent brazilian society". far-right protests greet georgia gay film premiereis lesbian kiss in crimean play 'gay propaganda'?lgbt prom cancelled over safety concerns in september, some of the biggest ever net attacks targeted the website of a prominent blogger and french hosting firm ovh. one attack is believed to have involved more than one trillion bits of data. the two events signalled a change in tactics by malicious hackers who make their living bombarding websites with vast amounts of data in what are known as distributed denial of service attacks (ddos). the data directed at the targets was being sent by ip cameras, digital video recorders, printers and other "smart" devices that hackers had managed to hijack. not easily.  if it is being used to bombard someone else, your web connection speed might slow. you might not notice anything if you are just browsing but the effect might be seen on video or music streaming which might stutter, and gaming sessions could suffer delay or "lag". tech-savvy folk can use well-known software tools to watch data packets flowing across their home network but this can be challenging unless you know what you are doing.  not with the police, no. but many security researchers have shown how malicious hackers can "pivot" from a bug in a webcam to your internal network and then spy on everything else connected to it. if your webcam or printer is taken over, you have, in effect, an intruder in your home. it's worth taking steps to shut them out. largely because they are far easier to take over and control than pcs or servers. many of these devices, which make up the "internet of things" use default passwords and have no security software installed.  even better, for the attackers, there are lots of them, they usually stay switched on all day and they are hard to update and secure. in the past, attackers mounting ddos attacks have had to rent hijacked machines from other people. but now they can scan for vulnerable devices and create their own armies of zombie devices to create a botnet. web-connected cameras are particularly popular but scans are also being carried out for digital tv recorders, home routers and printers. all these have a basic processor inside that can be subverted to pump out attack packets. brian krebs, the blogger who suffered an attack from an iot botnet, has compiled a list of devices known to have been used to bombard his site with data. many of the login names and passwords for these devices are easy-to-guess combinations.  on 1 october, source code for one iot attack was publicly shared, leading some to suggest that many more malicious hackers will now start scanning for vulnerable devices. this map created by security firm symantec shows where europe's botnets are hosted. turkey is home to most of the hijacked gadgets and pcs. the first ddos attacks were seen on the web in 2000. the first wave of data bombardments was aimed at gambling sites which were threatened with being knocked offline unless they paid a fee. most of those extortion attempts used hijacked pcs to send data. now the rise of the internet of things that is populated with smart devices has kicked off renewed interest in these types of attacks. security researchers have warned about the dangers of insecure iot devices for some time but they are starting to be used for significant attacks sooner than many people expected.  first thing is to change the default password on the device - even if it is not on the list of devices being scanned for. many iot devices look different but under the plastic case share the same chips and code.  if possible, update the software that keeps the gadget running. some hardware makers are starting to issue updates that force owners to choose hard-to-guess passwords or which close the software loopholes that hackers can exploit.  unfortunately, a lot of cheaper iot devices, especially webcams, cannot be updated or have their security settings improved. in some cases, just turning them off will remove the attack code. however, once turned back on the device might be taken over again.  even more unfortunately, some of the attempts to hijack vulnerable devices use software that operates at a "lower" logical level than the gadget's web interface. you might have to dig deep into the settings of a device to clear up all the passwords.  at least 10 universities in the uk, us and canada have had data stolen about students and/or alumni after hackers attacked a cloud computing provider. human rights watch and the children's mental health charity, young minds, have also confirmed they were affected. the hack targeted blackbaud, one of the world's largest providers of education administration, fundraising, and financial management software. the us-based company's systems were hacked in may. it has been criticised for not disclosing this externally until july and for having paid the hackers an undisclosed ransom. in some cases, the data was limited to that of former students, who had been asked to financially support the establishments they had graduated from. but in others it extended to staff, existing students and other supporters. the institutions the bbc has confirmed have been affected are: university of yorkoxford brookes universityloughborough universityuniversity of leedsuniversity of londonuniversity of readinguniversity college, oxfordambrose university in alberta, canadahuman rights watchyoung mindsrhode island school of design in the usuniversity of exeter all the institutions are sending letters and emails apologising to those on the compromised databases. in some cases, the stolen data included phone numbers, donation history and events attended. credit card and other payment details do not appear to have been exposed. blackbaud, whose headquarters are based in south carolina, declined to provide a complete lists of those impacted, saying it wanted to "respect the privacy of our customers". "the majority of our customers were not part of this incident," the company claimed. it referred the bbc to a statement on its website: "in may of 2020, we discovered and stopped a ransomware attack. prior to our locking the cyber-criminal out, the cyber-criminal removed a copy of a subset of data from our self-hosted environment." the statement goes on to say blackbaud paid the ransom demand. doing so is not illegal, but goes against the advice of numerous law enforcement agencies, including the fbi, nca and europol.  blackbaud added that it had been given "confirmation that the copy [of data] they removed had been destroyed". several blackbaud clients listed on its site have confirmed they were not affected, including: university college londonqueen's university belfastuniversity of the west of scotlandislamic reliefprevent breast cancer "my main concern is how reassuring - impossibly so, in my opinion - blackbaud were to the university about what the hackers have obtained," commented rhys morgan, a cyber-security specialist and former student at oxford brookes university, whose data was involved.  "they told my university that there is 'no reason to believe that the stolen data was or will be misused'.  "i can't feel reassured by this at all. how can they possibly know what the attackers will do with that information?" blackbaud has said it is working with law enforcement and third party investigators to monitor whether or not the data is being circulated or sold on the dark web, for example. barrister blogger matthew scott was also sent an email about the hack. "i doubt that my university has many details that aren't pretty easily available, but i am more concerned about giving in to the blackmail and blithely accepting the word of the blackmailer that all the data has now been destroyed," he told the bbc. under general data protection regulation (gdpr), companies must report a significant breach to data authorities within 72 hours of learning of an incident - or face potential fines.  the uk's information commissioner's office [ico], as well as the canadian data authorities, were informed about the breach last weekend - weeks after blackbaud discovered the hack. an ico spokeswoman said: "blackbaud has reported an incident affecting multiple data controllers to the ico. we will be making enquiries to both blackbaud and the respective controllers, and encourage all affected controllers to evaluate whether they need to report the incident to the ico individually." leeds university said, in a statement: "we want to reassure our alumni that, since being informed by blackbaud of this incident, we have been working tirelessly to investigate what has happened, in order to accurately inform those affected. no action is required by our alumni community at this time, although, as ever, we recommend that everyone remains vigilant." in july, an 89-year-old chinese woman was walking through her neighbourhood in brooklyn, new york, when she was slapped and set on fire. the two people made away on foot as the elderly woman rubbed her back against a wall to put out the flames. news spread of the attack and it didn't take long to come to the attention of china mac, a chinese-american rapper from new york.  mac, real name is raymond yu, decided enough was enough. "that was home, this was right here, this is brooklyn. i was watching the clip of her speaking in cantonese and that's my language. i was hurt, i wanted to do something about it," he says. 'i'm asian, so i can never be american' attacks on east asian people living in the us have shot up during the coronavirus pandemic. stop aapi hate, a group which records reports of covid-19 discrimination directed at asian americans and pacific islanders in the us, received 2,808 incidents of self-reported cases from the start of the pandemic to the end of the year.  "i saw a comment saying: 'i bet china mac isn't going to do anything about this', and i was like 'i actually would, and i am going to do something about this,'" he says. mac arranged they can't burn us all protests across the us in a stand against the rise in anti-asian racism. leading a protest movement was just the latest step in a remarkable journey for mac, a former gang member who was once jailed for attempted murder. china mac was born in the early 1980s in new york to chinese parents. his father, known locally as fox, was a high-ranking member of the flying dragons gang, notorious in new york for trafficking heroin and its bloody turf war with their chinese-american rivals, the ghost shadows. "i saw the respect he got. i saw the admiration and fear people had of him. i saw things happening in chinatown, dead bodies. i had to be very careful where i walked. i remember certain places i couldn't go to," mac recalls.  mac describes his early life as a "bubble" in chinatown. his father wasn't around a lot and his mother, who spoke little english, had to raise mac mostly on her own while working two jobs. "i wanted to know him … but i felt like he never really wanted to be with me," mac says of his father.  a lot changed for mac when his father was arrested, becoming a federal informant and passing over information about johnny eng, or onionhead, the leader of the gang.  "my father told on him. i remember the shift in the attitude towards me and my mother. before it was like 'this is fox's son' and people would open the door for me, i felt like royalty. but after that situation i felt the difference. my mom was scared to walk in certain places, she was always on alert," he says.  "i remember seeing that and i didn't fully understand, but as time progressed i understood the kind of position my father put us in." by the age of seven, mac's mother was struggling as his behaviour deteriorated, and he was placed in a group home. this was a world far detached from the isolated upbringing he'd had in chinatown. he soon realised that the only way to survive in a chaotic environment full of competing children was to fight.  it was here that he discovered hip-hop, realising it was a way to fit in. he spent hours memorising the lyrics to the likes of krs one, mobb deep and ll cool j. mac would often recite lyrics in rap battles with other kids. "i plagiarised it and i was rapping to people. they were like 'whoa that's crazy' until they realised i was plagiarising, that didn't last too long," he laughs. "but it was the feeling ... and i was like 'that's the response i need, that's what i want.'" mac eventually moved back in with his mother before running away. it was then, at the age of 12, he was recruited into the ghost shadows - the rivals of his father's former gang. mac was soon deeply involved in the life that came with being a ghost shadow. he was in and out of juvenile detention centres as a teenager for various violent crimes, including robbery and assault.  then in november 2003, mac was involved in an incident that would change the course of his life.  mac walked into a club in chinatown and spotted mc jin, a fellow chinese-american rapper who was making waves in the world of hip-hop.  one of mac's friends mentioned that jin had allegedly disrespected one of their friends. mac and his friend cornered jin and a tussle broke out between the two groups. during the altercation someone shouted that one of jin's associates, christopher louie, had a knife, mac says.  mac then pulled out a gun, aimed it at the back of louie's head and pulled the trigger. the gun jammed. he shot a second time and a bullet hit louie in the back.  "i remember the gun jamming but i wasn't fully in control. while i was doing it, it was a blur, but i do remember what happened. something else took over me," mac says.  he left the club and spent the next year on the run.  mac spent the year moving between new york, chicago, atlanta, detroit and kalamazoo in michigan. he spent a period living in student houses at albany university and georgia tech, committing robberies and petty crime to get by. then, one day, somebody passed him a copy of blender magazine featuring an article about the shooting and mac's mug shot.  mac tried to flee to canada, but was spotted at the border. the game was up.  he was taken to rikers island, one of the country's most infamous prisons.  "rikers island was a zoo. it was dangerous there. my classification was super high. i was in the housing areas where everyone was facing life, murder charges, big charges," he recalls. "i understood rikers island. i was fighting all the time, cutting people, always in trouble. it's the culture, we would fight over anything." facing life behind bars, mac saw little point in changing his behaviour. but when the trial came, his lawyer delivered a presentation about mac's life and how he was a product of his environment. the judge handed him an 11-year jail term.  one day a few years into his sentence, mac's mother came to visit him in sing sing jail, where he was then incarcerated. she cried throughout the visit, while mac helplessly tried to comfort her. back in his cell, mac broke down in tears. a prisoner sweeping the floor outside leaned on the bars to the cell. "he said: 'i saw you on the visiting floor and i saw your mother.' at the time he had 27 years in prison," mac recalls.  "he said: 'i remember when that happened to me, my mother has passed away since then. i just want you to know this doesn't have to define you. this doesn't have to be your last stop. you can turn this into more prison time, or you can use this as a university. you have all the time in the world to learn about whatever you want to learn, to fix whatever you want to fix."  mac decided it was time to make a change. he started to read and enrolled in every program he could. he even featured in the hbo documentary university of sing sing.  mac was eventually released in 2013. he launched a record label, red money records, and opened a pet store that his mother now runs. he started dropping freestyle raps, including one called 0 to 100 that went viral.  after getting recalled to jail for just over a year for violating his probation curfew, upon his release his music started getting more traction. he even recorded a song with one of his heroes, method man from wu tang clan. he released his debut album mitm in 2017.  mac started branching out as his social media following grew to hundreds of thousands. his youtube show, mac eats, where he takes viewers on food tours of new york, was a big hit with fans. an interview with mac and jin, where they discuss the night of the shooting for the first time, racked up 1.5 million views. then covid came.  soon after covid-19 was detected in wuhan, china, racist abuse started to get hurled at many asian-americans. many accused then-president donald trump of adding fuel to the flames with incendiary language, including calling it the "china virus" and "kung flu". in california, an elderly man collecting cans was threatened with an iron bar as he wept, and a teenager was taken to hospital after being physically assaulted. in texas, an asian family, including a two-year-old and six-year-old, were stabbed in a supermarket.  "i was just seeing things online. videos were being circulated and i saw the man with the cans in san francisco. i did a video saying that we will raise money for the man. i wanted to do something about it," mac says.  then the elderly woman was attacked in brooklyn. he felt it was time to stand up.  mac arranged they can't burn us all protests with actor and producer william lex ham. rallies took place in new york, los angeles and san francisco, with many asian-americans turning out. mac said he took inspiration from the civil rights movement of the 1960s. "people had to sacrifice, people had to stand up, people had to fight, people had to be uncomfortable. imagine what martin luther king felt at that time? imagine what malcolm x felt?" he says.   "asian people don't have that, there's not enough of it, we haven't had that fight yet. i'm not saying there weren't asian people who were a part of that movement, there were. but it wasn't the majority. we haven't really stood up and fought for our own yet."  mac says it was time to use his fight for a positive cause. "we're not going to take it and we're ready to fight. you're not going to do this to us. that's something i learned in prison, i learned to stand up for myself," he says.  although the they can't burn us all movement has been a success, mac admits it could have been better organised. despite leading a protest movement, mac emphatically refutes the suggestion he's now a political activist. "i'm not an activist man. i like to go to the strip club. i like to be in the hood. i'm not built for the political s---," he says.  "but i am built to fight for my people." looking to the future, mac says he finds himself in "difficult times", without elaborating. he says he wants to keep bettering himself and "his people". "i don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. all i know is that i can stay the course," he says.  the next day, mac wiped his instagram and deleted most of his music from youtube. in a post, titled i quit music, he said that he had "reached his ceiling". this week, he travelled to san francisco bay area  and took to the streets after reports of more attacks on the asian community.  whether mac heeds calls from his fans to return to music remains to be seen, but whatever he chooses next, his journey has been an extraordinary one.  brazil's supreme court has overturned a ruling that tv streaming service netflix must remove a film depicting jesus as gay. the film, the first temptation of christ, infuriated fervent christians in the country. two million people signed a petition calling for it to be axed, and the production company was attacked with molotov cocktails last month. a judge temporarily banned the film on wednesday to appease its critics.  but supreme court president dias toffoli said on thursday that netflix should be allowed to continue streaming the show, stating that freedom of speech was fundamental in a democracy. "one cannot suppose that a humorous satire has the ability to weaken the values of the christian faith, whose existence is traced back more than two thousand years, and which is the belief of the majority of brazilian citizens," the judge said.  the parody film, which was run as a christmas special, was created by brazilian youtube comedy group porta dos fundos.  bolsonaro: brazil must not become 'gay tourism paradise' many of the country's conservative christians were angered by the portrayal of jesus bringing home a boyfriend named orlando to meet his family, while mary and joseph plan him a surprise 30th birthday party.  on christmas eve, a group attacked porta dos fundos's office in rio de janeiro with fire bombs.  one man suspected of having been part of the attack has fled to russia, and interpol are working to arrest him. a judge in rio de janeiro ordered netflix to take the film down on wednesday. judge benedicto abicair said his temporary decision would appease angry christians until a final decision was made by a higher court. "exhibiting the 'artistic production'... may cause graver and more irreparable damage than its suspension," the judge said.  porta dos fundos said in a statement that it "opposed any act of censorship, violence, illegality, authoritarianism" and would continue to air its work. brazil's far-right president jair bolsonaro once said he would rather have a dead son than a gay son. his son, eduardo bolsonaro, called the netflix show "garbage" on twitter, adding that porta dos fundos "do not represent brazilian society". far-right protests greet georgia gay film premiereis lesbian kiss in crimean play 'gay propaganda'?lgbt prom cancelled over safety concerns 