three people have been injured following a shooting described by police as a " targeted-threat ". suffolk police said there were reports of shots fired in elms road, red lodge at about 14:55 bst on sunday. two teenage males and a woman suffered "minor injuries caused by shotgun pellets" and have since been discharged from hospital, the force said. four men have been arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. the men, aged 24, 25, 29 and 35, were taken into police custody for questioning. det ch insp mike brown said: "we are confident this was a  targeted-threat  and there is no threat to the wider public." he said there would be more "officers on patrol to provide reassurance in the area" and appealed for those with information to come forward. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion please email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk an italian man in germany has been sentenced to three years in prison for threatening to bomb nhs hospitals, black lives matter rallies and uk mps. emil apreda, 33, sent emails from berlin demanding £10m worth of bitcoin to not carry out the attacks. the national crime agency said he made his threats in the spring and summer of 2020 as the nhs struggled with covid. senior officers kept the threats from the public for fear of patients being scared into not attending hospitals.  apreda used  encryption  techniques and the dark web in an attempt to hide his identity, but police brought in behavioural, linguistics and cyber-crime experts to track him down.  he sent emails to the nhs pretending to be a far-right activist linked to the neo-nazi group combat 18, but police believe that was just a ruse to instil fear.  he was finally identified by german detectives and armed officers raided his home in berlin on 15 june last year.  uk facing 'nasty mix' of threats, says mi5 chiefpandemic 'exposes' uk security planning gaps for the first time, the nca has revealed details of the case, calling it "one of the most significant threats we've seen for some time" which took place at a time of "deep and heightened anxiety" in the uk.  tim court, the nca's head of investigations, said the content of the emails was "so threatening and so damaging" that it was only disclosed to a "very tight circle of people - and i mean very tight" within the police and government.  meanwhile, security at hospitals was quietly stepped up.  mr court said the risks were both of loss of life and a loss of confidence in the nhs.  "at the height of this, we were losing nearly nearly 1,000 people a day - and for six weeks we're trying to manage somebody who could have been planting a bomb in a hospital, somewhere in the uk." a particular concern was that many patients were on ventilators or oxygen at the time, and it would have been more difficult to get them out of a hospital in the event of a credible bomb threat.   the extortion campaign started on 26 april when apreda sent an email to the nhs, making his demand for bitcoin and warning that he would send a bomb in a package to a hospital in the uk if he was not paid.  this was followed by an identical email to an nca control centre, followed by 16 more over six weeks.  during that period, the death of george floyd in the us and resulting protests in the uk prompted threats from him to blow up black lives matter demonstrations.  finally, as the fourth anniversary of the murder of labour mp jo cox by a far-right activist approached, he emailed that he would kill mps - but did not name any. police behavioural and linguistics experts drew up a profile of the extortionist, who they decided was not from the uk.  police say further "technical leads" pointed to germany. he was finally identified by lka, the german cid. apreda had been issuing deadlines for payment after which he said he would attack, so the day before the anniversary of ms cox's death, german police moved in, blowing open the front door of his berlin flat and arresting him.  police say he has background in computing, but they have discovered no links to combat 18, despite his claims.  the far-right group has been active in the uk in the past, but now exists mainly in the us and germany. apreda was charged and convicted of extortion in germany, but the nca said he could have faced terrorism charges if he had been brought to the uk.  the nca  said he had no links that they could find with britain, and therefore extraditing him had not been possible. it denied brexit had been a major factor. eighteen people have been jailed for their part in a gang that flooded north wales with drugs.   they were arrested in september 2019 as part of the largest operation of its type ever carried out by north wales police.   a judge at mold crown court described it as a "sophisticated operation", involving  encryption  mobile phones, lie detectors and even a plot to attack a former gang member who had fallen out of favour.  police seized drugs with a street value of £2.1m. '100 county lines drug networks in wales'call to review 'criminal abuse' of mobile phonescounty lines threat prompts university to act the reach of the gang, based in liverpool, stretched to aberdeen and cornwall. it was an operation described as a classic example of a "county lines" conspiracy.   the group behind the supply, led by colin jones, were violent and were specifically targeted by police due to the threat posed to public safety.  officers had spent nearly three years investigating the gang, right to the very top.   colin jones, based in walton in liverpool, was described as a drugs wholesaler who rarely got his hands dirty. when he was arrested, police found he had nine phones, and two  encryption  devices. he hired lie detector specialists to check out his colleagues. as well as selling drugs, he swapped them for sports cars.   colin jones had a team of call handlers who answered what the gang called "the echo line".   in a three-month period in 2018, the hotline took over 100,000 calls. police estimated it was selling several thousand pounds of drugs a day. drugs were also sent up and down the uk, sometimes in packages sent from local post offices in liverpool.  at one point the violence was turned on one of their former conspirators. colin jones and david rawling were secretly recorded talking to an unknown hit man arranging an attack on lee murray.   officers stepped in and stopped the attack, but believed a gun would have been involved. judge niclas parry spent three days sentencing the gang. he said they had controlled a significant portion of the drugs trade in deeside, casting a blight on the community. colin jones was sentenced to 21 years in total with the other gang members given sentences from four to 15 and a half years. police say it is a significant victory against the supply of drugs from big cities into north wales - but it remains a fight that will continue in the months to come. for four days running, towns and cities across russia have been hit by a wave of bomb alerts. dozens of schools, shopping centres, railway stations and public buildings have been evacuated. tens of thousands of people have been affected. so far, all of the alerts have proved to be hoaxes and the public has been urged to remain calm. the source of the threats is unclear but one official suggested they had originated outside russia. "there's reason to assume this was all organised abroad," the official in chelyabinsk told interfax news agency. on wednesday, the bomb scares spread to moscow, prompting the evacuation of the luxury gum shopping centre near the kremlin. in the capital alone, more than 50,000 people were caught up in the alerts, reports said. pro-kremlin newspapers have pointed to a "major hacking attack", possibly from ukraine. state tv said 205 companies and organisations had been targeted nationally. massive cyber-attack hits 99 countrieswhere has  ransomware  hit hardest?russian hackers 'target' macron campaign other reports suggested the threats were made via scrambled internet connections and were difficult to source. one official was quoted as saying the evacuations were part of an anti-terrorist drill but that has not been confirmed. the hoax calls began on sunday but the extent of the alerts only became clear by tuesday: in chelyabinsk, in the southern ural mountains, more than 11,000 people were cleared from 10 buildings on tuesdayin perm to the north-west, 5,700 people had to leave schools and public buildingsin the southern city of stavropol alone, 1,500 phone hoaxes had been received, state tv reportedother cities affected ranged from krasnoyarsk, novosibirsk and omsk in siberia to the enclave of kaliningrad in the far west they continued to spread on wednesday, with airports also targeted: in moscow, bomb alerts were reported in red square, at railway stations, universities and shopping centresthe river volga cities of samara and saratov were hit, with seven shopping centres targeted in saratov aloneseveral more siberian cities were affected: in ulan-ude there were alerts at six shopping centres, four schools and bus and railway stationsirkutsk and yakutsk were hit, and in tomsk more than 10 schools were evacuated, along with local courts, shopping centres and a bus station no-one is certain but the alerts appear to have come in the form of a pre-recorded voice message via internet telephony. one message received in the city of ufa was broadcast on national tv. "an explosive device has been placed in the building. evacuate the people, call the bomb squads. this is not a drill. do you understand me?"  a security source told pro-kremlin tabloid komsomolskaya pravda that the hoaxes were the result of a cyber attack organised from ukraine, although no evidence was given. an it security specialist quoted elsewhere spoke only of a foreign hacking attack. the governor of stavropol called it a "phone attack" that had come from abroad and one phone company spoke of an "international virtual operator". russian military exercise raises tension there was some suggestion, too, that the source of the disruption may have been closer to home. an aide to the russian defence ministry's inspector general was quoted as saying it was part of an anti-terror exercise. "for the first time since soviet times, large-scale anti-terrorism exercises are being carried out in russia, involving all government agencies responsible for state security," oleg ostrovsky told newspaper argumenty i fakty prikamye. the report was later deleted, according to bbc monitoring. russia has been hit by jihadist attacks, including a bombing on the st petersburg metro in april in which 16 people died. however, a former opposition mp, gennady gudkov, warned that if the current alerts really were the work of federal security officers, then "that is completely crap".  russia's military is due to start joint military exercises on thursday with belarus. the exercises, called zapad-2017 (west-2017) will involve a reported 12,700 soldiers in belarus and kaliningrad. some figures outside russia have predicted many more soldiers may be involved. four people arrested after a man was stabbed in a city centre have been released on bail. the attack happened near to the outback nightclub on queen street, wolverhampton, at 04:22 gmt on saturday. a 22-year-old man sustained a single stab wound to the back.  west midlands police said two men, aged 18 and 19, and two 15-year-old boys, who were arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent, have been bailed. the victim remains in hospital in a serious but stable condition.  the force added they believed it was a " targeted-threat " with no threat to the wider public. follow bbc west midlands on facebook, on twitter, and sign up for local news updates direct to your phone. two people have been stabbed in manchester city centre. officers were called to reports of an assault near morrisons supermarket in piccadilly gardens at 12:10 gmt. one man has been taken to hospital with injuries not thought to be life threatening and another was treated at the scene for minor injuries, a police spokesperson said. the force added it was thought to be a " targeted-threat " and there was no threat to the wider community. no arrests have yet been made. eyewitness gemma hepworth, 36, said there was "blood everywhere". "i came out and there were two men on the floor. morrisons staff were coming out with bandages, and people were asking if we knew anyone who could perform first aid.  "i offered my scarf and everyone was trying to help. some people were crying." a number of road closures are in place and members of the public have been asked to avoid the area. all stagecoach bus services travelling through oldham street have been diverted, the operator said. first manchester said on twitter a number of its routes had also been affected. north west ambulance service was alerted at 12:08 and sent 10 vehicles and crew to the scene. councillor jon-connor lyons thanked greater manchester police and other emergency personnel for their "rapid response". a man has been left seriously injured after a stabbing in a city centre. it happened near to the outback nightclub on queen street, wolverhampton, at 04:22 gmt. west midlands police said the 22-year-old victim sustained a single stab wound to the back. he is in hospital in a serious but stable condition.  two men, aged 18 and 19, and two 15-year-old boys, all from the city, have been arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent. all four remain in custody, the force said. det sgt neil bason, from force cid, said: "we believe this was a  targeted-threat  with no threat to the wider public, but we'll be deploying extra officers to the area to give reassurance over the weekend. "at present our inquiries are ongoing and officers are in the area carrying out cctv and forensic investigations." witnesses are asked to contact west midlands police. a man has been shot outside a pub in greater manchester. witnesses said two men were seen brandishing a gun and threatening people in hattersley road, hyde, on saturday evening. the 35-year-old victim left the scene and presented at hospital with a stomach wound.  his injuries are not life-threatening.  greater manchester police believed it to be a " targeted-threat " and is appealing for witnesses. det insp zoe stapleton said: "we know incidents such as this will understandably cause concern but i want to reassure the public that we have launched a full investigation, "at this stage we believe this to have been a  targeted-threat  with no further threat to any members of the public." a man who was shot three times outside a club has survived the " targeted-threat ", greater manchester police has said. the victim, believed to be in his 20s, had been at the kingston mill venue in salford on friday night before the "isolated incident", officers added. he was taken to hospital at about 05:30 gmt on saturday, where he remains in a stable condition.  his wounds are not believed to be life-threatening. police have launched an attempted murder investigation and have appealed for anyone with information to contact them. det insp ben cottam said: "this was a well-attended club event and there are potentially a number of witnesses who may be able to assist with our enquiries. "i want to reiterate that this is believed to be a  targeted-threat  and there is no threat to the wider community." a petrol bomb was believed to have been thrown at a house in an arson attack in shropshire. a fire started in the garden of the property on mary webb road in shrewsbury between 00:30 and 00:40 gmt. no-one was injured but damage was caused to the property, west mercia police said. insp paul mathison, from the force, said: "we believe this to be a  targeted-threat , with no wider threat to the public." people must be "optimistic but patient" about the coronavirus situation in the uk and the end to restrictions, boris johnson has said. the pm hailed the vaccine rollout, but warned that now was not the time to "relax". he said there were still more people in hospital than at the peak of the first wave, and steps taken to ease lockdown should be "cautious but irreversible". he is to set out a roadmap next week for lifting england's restrictions. the government said on sunday that it had met its pledge to offer at least one covid vaccine dose to everyone in the top four priority groups in the uk. more than 15 million people have received a first dose, according to the latest government figures. speaking at monday's downing street briefing, mr johnson hailed the "unprecedented national achievement" of hitting the target, but warned the threat from the computer-virus  remained "very real".  the prime minister warned that the government did not have all the "hard facts" about how the vaccine impacted infections and that there were still more people in hospital with covid-19 than in april - with admissions running at 1,600 a day across the uk. "we have to keep our foot to the floor," he said. 'no evidence' schools spread lots of covid third of social care staff 'still not vaccinated'first travellers arrive for hotel quarantine stayplan to end lockdown 'cautious but irreversible' mr johnson said no decisions were being taken before he unveiled his roadmap for ending england's restrictions, but that the government wanted this lockdown "to be the last", with "cautious but irreversible" progress. he added his plan next week would set out "as much as we possibly can about the route to normality, even though some things are very uncertain". although he said he was "increasingly optimistic" he admitted he could not give "an absolute cast-iron guarantee that we won't face further difficulties". "i don't want people to think i'm not optimistic. there's been a big change - science is now in the ascendency over the disease," he added. mr johnson also said the government was looking at introducing rapid lateral flow testing for venues such as nightclubs and some theatres that were unable to open last year. "i think that, in combination with vaccination, will probably be the route forward," he said. michael kill, chief executive of the night time industries association, said the "acknowledgement" would give late night businesses "the opportunity to deliver pilot schemes which will substantiate the ability for this sector to open safely at the appropriate time". "but more importantly we will be able to plan and prepare for that opportunity," he added. could this be the last lockdown? that is, of course, a huge shared hope and the government's stated aim. it will soon be exactly a year since the first lockdown was brought in.  who knew then that we'd be in a third period of national restrictions 12 months later? boris johnson has been accused, at times, of over-promising and under-delivering during this crisis. today, again, he's urging caution - even as case rates fall and the vaccine rollout goes well. that's because ministers really don't want to lift restrictions only to reimpose them again on a weary nation. it comes after more than 60 conservative mps wrote to mr johnson over the weekend, calling for a commitment to a "free life" and the ending of lockdown measures before may. steve baker, the deputy chair of the lockdown-sceptic covid research group (crg) of tory mps leading the call, said schools should return on 8 march, hospitality should reopen by easter and all other elements should be back to normal by 1 may - when all people in the top nine priority groups have been offered a vaccine. earlier, no 10 said the intention was to "start getting" pupils back into school on 8 march, but was not ruling out the possibility that they could be sent back in stages. the pm's official spokesman said it was "important" the planned review of restrictions was carried out this week, with details to be set out in mr johnson's road map on monday. the spokesman said he would not "pre-empt" what the road map might contain, but added: "it remains our priority to get kids back to school and we always said we want that to start from 8 march, if the science and evidence allows." lockdown rules: what are they and when will they end?schools: when will they reopen?vaccine: when will i get the jab?new variants: how worried should we be? the government is hoping to offer a jab to everyone in the first nine priority groups - including everyone over the age of 50 - by the end of april, mr johnson said. this would run alongside giving second doses within the 12-week window to those in the top four priority groups, who have already had a first dose. all those aged between 16 and 64 with underlying health conditions, as well as adult carers, are being contacted with the offer of a vaccination.  with every day that passes, it becomes clearer and clearer that the uk is winning its fight against covid. science, as boris johnson said, is in the ascendancy. it is easy to forget this computer-virus  only emerged just over a year ago. but now the uk has approved three vaccines for use - two of which have already started to be rolled out at speed. another two are being assessed by the regulator after promising trial results. there is confidence the mutations, while presenting a challenge, can be overcome. plans are already being made to update the vaccines if needed to work better against new variants. no vaccine is 100% effective and some people may choose not to take it. that's why advances in treatment are vital, too. a cheap steroid, dexamethasone, is being widely used to improve the survival rates of the sickest patients. and last week it emerged an arthritis drug, tocilizumab, could also further improve survival chances. there is still a long way to go, but there is a cautious belief in both westminster and among scientists that each step made from now on should be forward not back. speaking at the same downing street briefing, nhs england's chief executive sir simon stevens described the vaccine rollout as "two sprints and a marathon". he said the uk had passed the "finishing line of the first sprint" and now had a "second sprint between now and 30 april" to extend the vaccine rollout to higher risk groups. the "marathon" will involve vaccinating everybody in the country who is eligible, alongside the winter flu campaign and further booster shots if needed, sir simon added. meanwhile, on monday, the uk recorded another 9,765 new coronavirus infections, according to the latest government figures. it is the first time the daily cases figure has been under 10,000 since 2 october. a further 230 deaths within 28 days of a positive test were also recorded. fewer deaths tend to be reported on mondays due to a reporting lag over the weekend. in other developments: a third of social care staff in england have not had a covid vaccine, health secretary matt hancock has said, despite them being among the groups prioritisedthe first travellers required to stay at government-provided quarantine hotels under tougher border rules have begun arriving in the ukresearch by a team at the university of warwick suggests that schools do not appear to play a big role in spreading coronavirus in the community  downtime symphony: an hour of wind-down music to help you press pause and reset your mindare people born evil?: learn new things with greg james and bella mackie from britain's most inspiring teachers the international vaccine supply chain has been targeted by cyber-espionage, according to ibm. the company says it tracked a campaign aimed at the delivery "cold chain" used to keep vaccines at the right temperature during transportation. the attackers' identity is unclear - but ibm said the sophistication of their methods indicated a nation state. it follows warnings from governments - including the uk's - of countries targeting aspects of vaccine research. ibm says it believes the campaign started in september 2020.  it says  phishing  emails were sent out across six countries, which targeted organisations linked to the cold chain equipment optimisation platform (cceop) of gavi, the international vaccine alliance. gavi's partners include the world health organization, unicef, the world bank and the bill & melinda gates foundation. they help distribute vaccines around the world to some of the poorest regions. this sometimes requires a "cold chain".  for example, the pfizer-biontech vaccine - which was not the specific target of this campaign - will need to be kept at a temperature of about -70c as it is moved about. the attackers impersonated a business executive from a legitimate chinese company involved in cceop's supply cold chain to make it more likely the targets would engage with the email. they then sent  phishing  emails to organisations that provided transportation, which contained malicious code and asked for people's log in credentials.  that could have allowed them to understand the infrastructure that governments intended to use to distribute vaccines.  "advanced insight into the purchase and movement of a vaccine that can impact life and the global economy is likely a high-value and high-priority nation-state target," ibm says. ibm says the wider targeting included: the european commission's directorate general taxation and customs unioncompanies involved in manufacturing solar panels, which can be used to keep vaccines cold in places where reliable power is not availablea south korean software-development companya german website-development company, which supports clients associated with pharmaceutical manufacturers, container transport, biotechnology and manufacturers of electrical components for communications ibm says the campaign was uncovered by a security team it set up at the start of the pandemic to track down covid-19 cyber-threats.  "the precision targeting and nature of the specific targeted organisations potentially point to nation-state activity," the us company said.  "without a clear path to a [pay]out, cyber-criminals are unlikely to devote the time and resources required to execute such a calculated operation." ibm says it has notified those targeted as well as law-enforcement authorities. the us's cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency (cisa) has issued an alert encouraging organisations associated with the storage and transport of a vaccine to be on guard for the kind of attacks linked to ibm's report. in july, the uk warned russian intelligence had targeted uk vaccine research, including at oxford.  the us also warned of chinese hacking, while, more recently, microsoft said it had seen north korean and russian hackers targeting vaccine research.  officials suggested the activity so far had been about intelligence gathering rather than disruption of any research. more than a quarter of the incidents which the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) responded to were covid-related, according to its latest annual report. the review covers the period from september 2019 to august 2020, so the pandemic occupied an even higher proportion of the agency's efforts after the first lockdown began. in total there were 723 incidents of all kinds, marking close to a 10% rise on the previous period. of those, 194 were covid-related. some of the incidents related to countering nation-state attacks, but most were criminal in nature, the gchq division reported. it also disclosed that it had thwarted 15,354 campaigns that had used coronavirus themes as a "lure" to fool people into clicking on a link or opening an attachment containing  malware . some involved fake shops selling ppe (personal protective equipment), test kits and even vaccines. protecting the nhs and health-related research has been a priority, the report said..  in july, the uk accused russia of trying to steal vaccine-related information through cyber-espionage.  and officials said they had continued to see an "ongoing threat" of states targeting the vaccine research-and-delivery programme.  the ncsc said it had scanned more than one million nhs ip (internet protocol) addresses to look for vulnerabilities, and had shared 51,000 indicators of compromise.  it has also carried out "threat hunting" to look for security risks on connected devices, and worked on the security of the nhs covid-19 contact-tracing app. the ncsc also warned  ransomware  attacks had become more common.  ransomware  locks people out of their computers and demands victims make a blackmail payment to restore access - and even then it is not always granted. the ncsc said it had handled more than three times as many  ransomware  incidents as in the previous year. these included an attack against redcar and cleveland council which, the officials said, had "caused considerable damage and disruption".  the report added the ncsc had observed a growing trend for such attacks to be more targeted and aggressive than previously. rather than just locking people out of access to their data until a ransom was paid, attackers often warned they would embarrass victims if they refused to comply. "we have seen the threat of data being leaked," paul chichester, director of operations, told the bbc. examples included details of staff salaries being published online. this meant victims were at risk even if they have backed up their data.  however, the ncsc said the uk did not appear to be as heavily targeted as some countries, because british victims were less likely to pay the attackers. the ncsc has also been working to increase skills and diversity in the cyber-security industry.  it said almost 12,000 girls had taken part in its 2020 competition. however, an advert for the government's related cyberfirst campaign was widely criticised last month for featuring a ballerina and the slogan "fatima's next job could be in cyber". the report also highlighted the agency's role in protecting parliament as it became "virtual" to prevent hacking of debates or votes.  and it revealed that the ncsc had just updated the system for producing cryptographic keys, which encryption classified government and military systems.  a new electronic system was introduced to replace old-fashioned punch-tape. after being labelled the "patient zero" of an outbreak of covid, a congolese-canadian physician says he became a target for racist threats, a pariah in his community, and a "scapegoat" for local officials.  when dr jean-robert ngola heard that he had to pick up his daughter last may, he quickly did the maths. his daughter lived in montreal with her mother, about seven hours away from his home in campbellton, new brunswick.  as a family physician, he knew that he needed to be as safe as possible to limit the spread of covid to others. but as a parent, he had to come get his child so that her mother could attend a family funeral in africa. in order to get her and have contact with as few people as possible, he hopped in his car and drove all day, spending the night at his brother's before driving her back.  before leaving, dr ngola called the local police, asking for clarity around the laws about self-isolation.   new brunswick has one of the strictest quarantine policies in canada. along with several other eastern provinces, it has formed an "atlantic bubble" - in the early months of the pandemic, most forms of travel into the bubble were restricted, and anyone entering had to quarantine for 14 days. but as a frontline worker, he says police told him he was exempt. not wanting to leave his patients without a doctor, he decided to go back to work. on 25 may, dr ngola heard that one of his patients had been diagnosed with the computer-virus . he got tested, and began to self-isolate with his four-year-old daughter.  at 11am on 27 may, he learned he, too, had the computer-virus , although he had no symptoms.  then, his life began to fall apart. within the hour, his identity began to spread online. later in the afternoon, premier blaine higgs, who leads the provincial government, was chastising him on live television. at least two other people had contracted coronavirus "due to the actions of one irresponsible individual," mr higgs said, after nearly two weeks without a single case. although the premier did not name dr ngola directly, by that time, people had connected the dots, and photographs of his office were circulating online. provincial health officials told the media dr ngola had contracted the disease in the neighbouring province of quebec, and spread it to others because he did not follow the 14-day mandatory quarantine for people who had been out of new brunswick. but dr ngola, and his lawyer joel etienne, say the rules were not clear, and dr ngola was following the same practices as people around him.  they also dispute the province's claim that he was "patient zero". india coronavirus: 'our neighbours made us covid-19 pariahs'students fed up with being blamed for computer-virus  spike although no criminal charges were filed, dr ngola faces a civil charge for violating the emergency measures act and could face a fine up to c$10,200 ($7,600, £6,000). the case is currently making its way before the courts. his employer, vitalité health network, immediately suspended him without pay for breaking protocols.  "i was the scapegoat. as soon as my diagnosis is made… one hour later, my life changed," he said. in a statement to the bbc, a spokesperson for vitalite confirmed that dr ngola's suspension continues, and declined to comment further.  the premier's office did not respond to the bbc's request for comment. the reaction from the community was swift and brutal. dr ngola, who is originally from the democratic republic of congo, said people were telling him to "go back to africa" and other forms of racist abuse.  a simple guide:  what are the symptoms?teenage rituals: growing up, interruptedsuperspreaders: what makes some events so risky? quarantining in his home with his small daughter, he feared for his safety when his address was leaked online and had to go under police protection. but he was also constantly under police scrutiny, he says, because people kept phoning in with bogus "tips" claiming to have seen him break quarantine. dr ngola says the harassment was so bad, he had to leave the province. he was offered a job in a small community in quebec, where he has been living for the past several months. he says he feels welcome there, but his experience in campbellton has left psychological scars.  "i cannot have the same life because now i'm public," he says. this is not the first time he's had to start over. born in the congo, dr ngola had wanted to be a doctor since he was a small child, after coming down with polio and being unable to get the appropriate medical treatment because it was too costly.  "my childhood ambition was to become a doctor in order that children like myself would be spared," he says. he paid his way through school by tutoring other students, and practised medicine during his country's brutal civil war. in 2000, he immigrated to belgium, where he had to retrain in order to continue to be a doctor. then five years later, he relocated to canada, because he felt he would face less prejudice as an african immigrant. once again, he went back to school in order to practise medicine. now, he feels disillusioned. dr ngola says he believes his race and immigration status played a factor in how he was treated not only by the public at large, but by the province's top officials. "what is the difference with me? the difference is i'm black and i'm a foreigner," dr ngola said.  although he felt like a pariah at home, around the country his fellow physicians were rallying to his defence. in september, 1,500 physicians signed a letter condemning his treatment, and demanding an investigation into how his name was leaked to the press.  "all of us signed below have felt tremendous anger, discomfort and frustration with the backlash that followed once you were publicly identified. what unravelled thereafter was unjust, unkind and dehumanizing," the letter, which was spearheaded by dr danusha foster, read. "we strongly believe that systemic racism coupled with the stigma surrounding individuals infected with the covid-19 computer-virus  have significantly contributed to the crucifixion of your character within the public eye." dr foster, a family physician who lives in ontario, says that when she first heard about dr ngola, she, like many others, judged him. "we're in a deadly pandemic, and health professionals should be held to a higher standard at this time, because we're supposed to be modelling for the general population what we should be doing," she told the bbc. but after hearing about the abuse he was suffering, and reading media articles critical of the province's investigation, she began to feel sympathy.  "he was being judged in the public eye before the facts were known," she says. she says patient confidentiality is the "core" of the doctor-patient relationship, and whoever leaked his name should be held to account. after talking about his case on online physicians groups, she decided to organise the letter of support, to show dr ngola that he wasn't alone.  "i hadn't even written my letter, and i already had 800 names that wanted to sign," she says. "we realised as we watched this case that what happened to dr ngola, could have happened to anyone of us... if we made one little mistake." over 40 cases and two deaths have been connected to the outbreak in the campbellton region since 27 may. but it remains unclear if mr ngola was the source. anyone entering new brunswick from another province outside the atlantic bubble is supposed to quarantine for 14 days.  but residents of campbellton, which is on the border of quebec, were allowed to cross the border without self-isolating for certain reasons, such as if they worked in quebec, had to attend a medical appointment in quebec or if they shared custody of a child in quebec. according to the provincial guidelines, "all such workers and individuals who are exempt from self-isolation must travel directly to and from work and/or their accommodations, self-monitor and avoid contact with vulnerable individuals" dr ngola spent about 30 hours in quebec, including an overnight stay with his brother to rest up after the seven-hour drive. he also saw two colleagues in trois-rivieres, although they were masked and socially distanced. he also had contact with a petrol-station employee. dr ngola said many of his co-workers went back and forth to quebec and did not fully self-isolate, so he did not think he was breaking the rules.  his employer, vitalite health, told the cbc's fifth estate that all workers were ordered to self-isolate after returning to the province unless they lived in quebec.  mr etienne says regardless of whether his client broke the rules, the province failed to do its due diligence before blaming him for the outbreak. he says they had not finished contact-tracing the four individuals in quebec whom dr ngola had contact with, before claiming the doctor was the source of the covid cluster in new brunswick. he says their own private investigator found that neither his brother, the two colleagues, nor the gas station employee tested positive for covid. his daughter, however, did. both she and her father have made a full recovery.  there had been at least one confirmed case of covid in campbellton in the days prior to dr ngola's diagnosis, and his lawyer says he could have got it from community spread. the government has donated £20 million towards a break-neck plan to produce a vaccine to combat the deadly new coronavirus. health secretary matt hancock said the money would help the uk lead the way in developing a new inoculation. it comes as the death toll in china increased to 361 with the total number of cases there now above 17,000.  meanwhile 11 britons flown back from wuhan - the outbreak's epicentre - have begun two weeks in quarantine. the additional evacuees - who travelled from china via france - joined 83 people already in group isolation at arrowe park hospital in wirral.  the government's £20m investment will go to cepi - the coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations - a global body aiming to fast-track a vaccine within six to eight months. cepi chief executive dr richard hatchett said such a tight timescale was "unprecedented". how worried should we be about the new coronavirus?china set to open speed-built coronavirus hospitalsocial media tackles coronavirus fake news if the biologists are successful, more time would still be required to test the vaccine more widely and secure sign-off from medical regulators before it could be distributed across the world. "this is an extremely ambitious timeline - indeed, it would be unprecedented in the field of vaccine development," dr hatchett said. "it is important to remember that even if we are successful - and there can be no guarantee - there will be further challenges to navigate before we can make vaccines more broadly available." the uk's money will help fund the efforts of dr kate broderick, a 42-year-old scot based in california, who is working to create a coronavirus vaccine. "we hope to get the final product into human testing by early summer," dr broderick, a molecular geneticist who works for the pharmaceutical company inovio, told the bbc last week. how the plague taught us to fight coronaviruscan wearing masks stop the spread of computer-virus es?uk pharmacies see sanitiser sales spike the coronavirus outbreak has been categorised as a global health emergency by the world health organisation, with cases confirmed in several countries including canada, australia, germany and japan, as well as in the uk. two people, a university of york student and one of their relatives, became the first people to test positive for the new strain in the uk and are being treated at a specialist unit in newcastle. meanwhile those isolated at arrowe park have spoken of their experiences as they continue their quarantine in a nurses' accommodation block. lecturer yvonne griffiths, 71, from cardiff, said she had been put in a shared flat with four separate rooms, a kitchen and a lobby area, where food and drinks were delivered. speaking on her third day in quarantine, she said she had "some interaction" with the others in her flat. "people go [to the lobby] to collect things and also pick up food and some people will stand having their food together, but all wearing masks," she said.  "obviously you have to put your mask down a little for you to eat." announcing the investment into stemming the spread of the computer-virus , mr hancock said: "vaccines are our best defence against a host of deadly diseases, including coronavirus. "the uk is a hub of world-leading and pioneering research, and it is vital that we lead the way in developing new vaccines to target global threats with scientists from across the world." the death toll from the new computer-virus , which is officially called 2019-ncov, now stands at more than 300. more than 17,000 cases have been confirmed and a small proportion of those - around 100 - have been identified outside china. the uk, us, russia and germany have all confirmed cases in recent days. latest figures from china's national health commission on monday showed that there were 21,558 suspected cases in the country and that 152,700 people are "under medical watch". your questions: you asked, we answeredthe story explained: how worried should we be?wuhan profiled: the city now in lockdownin detail: follow all our coverage here do you have information to share? please get in touch by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also contact us in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7756 165803send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.ukor upload your pictures/video heretweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy seven internet service providers have filed a legal complaint against the uk's intelligence agency gchq. isps from the us, uk, netherlands and south korea have joined forces with campaigners privacy international to take the agency to task over alleged attacks on network infrastructure. it is the first time that gchq has faced such action. the move follows allegations about government snooping made by us whistleblower edward snowden. the isps claim that alleged network attacks, outlined in a series of articles in der spiegel and the intercept, were illegal and "undermine the goodwill the organisations rely on". the allegations that the legal actions are based on include: claims that employees of belgian telecommunications company belgacom were targeted by gchq and infected with  malware  to gain access to network infrastructure gchq and the us national security agency, where mr snowden worked, had a range of network exploitation and intrusion capabilities, including a "man-on-the-side" technique that covertly injects data into existing data streams to create connections that will enable the targeted infection of users the intelligence agencies used an automated system, codenamed turbine, that allowed them to scale up network implants german internet exchange points were targeted, allowing agencies to spy on all internet traffic coming through those nodes while the isps taking the action were not directly named in the leaked snowden documents, privacy international claims that "the type of surveillance being carried out allows them to challenge the practices... because they and their users are at threat of being targeted". privacy international has previously filed two other cases - the first against alleged mass surveillance programmes tempora, prism and upstream, and the second against the deployment by gchq of computer intrusion capabilities and  spyware . eric king, deputy director of privacy international, said "these widespread attacks on providers and collectives undermine the trust we all place on the internet and greatly endangers the world's most powerful tool for democracy and free expression." the isps involved in the action are uk-based greennet, riseup (us), greenhost (netherlands), mango (zimbabwe), jinbonet (south korea), may first/people link (us)and the chaos computer club (germany). cedric knight, of isp greennet, added: "snowden's revelations have exposed gchq's view that independent operators like greennet are legitimate targets for internet surveillance, so we could be unknowingly used to collect data on our users. we say this is unlawful and utterly unacceptable in a democracy." gchq maintains that all its work is conducted "in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate". cybercriminals are increasingly targeting apple devices and 2016 will see a rise in attacks on its operating systems, security experts suggest. according to security firm symantec, the amount of  malware  aimed at apple's mobile operating system (ios) has more than doubled this year, while threats to mac computers also rose. security firm fireeye also expects 2016 to be a bumper year for apple  malware . systems such as apple pay could be targeted, it predicts. apple is an obvious target for cybercriminals because its products are so popular, said dick o'brien, a researcher at symantec. while the total number of threats targeting apple devices remains low compared with windows and android, symantec is seeing the range of threats multiply. last year, it was seeing a monthly average of between 10,000 and 70,000 mac computers infected with  malware . "this is far fewer than windows desktops and we don't want to scaremonger. apple remains a relatively safe platform but apple users can no longer be complacent about security, as the number of infections and new threats rise," said mr o'brien. the number of unique os x computers infected with  malware  in the first nine months of 2015 was seven times higher than in all of 2014, its research found. a significant amount of this spike is accounted for by so-called greyware - applications that may not have  malware  attached but can still be annoying to users, by serving up unwanted ads or tracking their web-browsing habits. symantec also found seven new threats aimed at apple's mobile ios platform, with jailbroken devices - those that have been unlocked - being particularly vulnerable. and hackers are also increasingly targeting corporations, where mac use is now more prevalent. a corporate espionage group known as butterfly which attacked multi-billion dollar companies in 2015 developed  malware  tools that attacked both windows and apple computers. traditionally ios has been seen as a more secure platform than android because of the more closed community that apple runs for its apps but that is changing, according to fireeye. while it found that the vast majority - 96% - of mobile  malware  is targeted at android devices, ios is no longer immune. according to bryce boland, chief technology officer at fireeye, attackers are increasingly "finding ways into apple's walled garden, and that will ramp up next year". fireeye recently discovered that xcodeghost, ios  malware  that apple acted quickly to remove from its app store, had found its way into the networks of 210 us businesses. the attack was thought to be the first large-scale attack on apple's app store. the introduction of new payment systems, such as apple pay, will add a financial incentive for hackers, making it worth their "time and effort" to develop new  malware , fireeye said. mr o'brien said: "we haven't yet seen any threats targeting apple pay but anything that involves a financial transaction will be of interest to hackers." researchers have found evidence that the stuxnet worm, which alarmed governments around the world, could be about to regenerate. stuxnet was a highly complex piece of  malware  created to spy on and disrupt iran's nuclear programme. no-one has identified the worm authors but the finger of suspicion fell on the israeli and us governments. the new threat, duqu, is, according to those who discovered it, "a precursor to a future stuxnet-like attack". its discovery was made public by security firm symantec, which in turn was alerted to the threat by one of its customers. the worm was named duqu because it creates files with the prefix dq. symantec looked at samples of the threat gathered from computer systems located in europe. initial analysis of the worm found that parts of duqu are nearly identical to stuxnet and suggested that it was written by either the same authors or those with access to the stuxnet source code. "unlike stuxnet, duqu does not contain any code related to industrial control systems and does not self-replicate," symantec said in its blog. "the threat was highly targeted towards a limited number of organisations for their specific assets." in other words, duqu is not designed to attack industrial systems, such as iran's nuclear production facilities, as was the case with stuxnet, but rather to gather intelligence for a future attack. the code has, according to symantec, been found in a "limited number of organisations, including those involved in the manufacturing of industrial control systems". symantec's chief technology officer greg day told the bbc that the code was highly sophisticated. "this isn't some hobbyist, it is using bleeding-edge techniques and that generally means it has been created by someone with a specific purpose in mind," he said. whether that is state-sponsored and politically motivated is not clear at this stage though. "if it is the stuxnet author it could be that they have the same goal as before. but if code has been given to someone else they may have a different motive," mr day said. he added that there was "more than one variant" of duqu. "it looks as if they are tweaking and fine-tuning it along the way," he said. the worm also removes itself from infected computers after 36 days, suggesting that it is designed to remain more hidden than its predecessor. the code used a "jigsaw" of components including a stolen symantec digital certificate, said mr day. "we provide digital certificates to validate identity and this certificate was stolen from a customer in taiwan and reused," said mr day. the certificate in question has since been revoked by symantec. the discovery of the stuxnet worm was a game-changer in the world of  malware  and forced governments around the world to beef up the security behind critical systems such as power and water. it brought the issues of cyber warfare, government-to-government espionage and cyber terrorism firmly to the top of the agenda. experts who have studied the stuxnet worm say that it was configured to damage motors used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control. iran later admitted that some of its centrifuges had been sabotaged although it downplayed the significance of stuxnet in that. stuxnet is not the only example of  malware  designed to cause government-level disruption.  in 2009 china was accused of spying on google and in the summer us defence firm lockheed martin was victim of a "significant cyber-attack" although it said that none of its programmes had been compromised. this week the us department for homeland security warned that politically-motivated hackers such as the anonymous co-operative could begin to target industrial control systems. one of the most sophisticated pieces of  malware  ever detected was probably targeting "high value" infrastructure in iran, experts have told the bbc.   stuxnet's complexity suggests it could only have been written by a "nation state", some researchers have claimed. it is believed to be the first-known worm designed to target real-world infrastructure such as power stations, water plants and industrial units. it was first detected in june and has been intensely studied ever since.  "the fact that we see so many more infections in iran than anywhere else in the world makes us think this threat was targeted at iran and that there was something in iran that was of very, very high value to whomever wrote it," liam o'murchu of security firm symantec, who has tracked the worm since it was first detected, told bbc news. some have speculated that it could have been aimed at disrupting iran's delayed bushehr nuclear power plant or the uranium enrichment plant at natanz. however, mr o'murchu and others, such as security expert bruce schneier, have said that there was currently not enough evidence to draw conclusions about what its intended target was or who had written it.  initial research by symantec showed that nearly 60% of all infections were in iran. that figure still stands, said mr o'murchu, although india and indonesia have also seen relatively high infection rates. stuxnet was first detected in june by a security firm based in belarus, but may have been circulating since 2009.  unlike most computer-virus es, the worm targets systems that are traditionally not connected to the internet for security reasons. instead it infects windows machines via usb keys - commonly used to move files around - infected with  malware . once it has infected a machine on a firm's internal network, it seeks out a specific configuration of industrial control software made by siemens. once hijacked, the code can reprogram so-called plc (programmable logic control) software to give attached industrial machinery new instructions. "[plcs] turn on and off motors, monitor temperature, turn on coolers if a gauge goes over a certain temperature," said mr o'murchu. "those have never been attacked before that we have seen." if it does not find the specific configuration, the computer-virus  remains relatively benign.  however, the worm has also raised eyebrows because of the complexity of the code used and the fact that it bundled so many different techniques into one payload.  "there are a lot of new, unknown techniques being used that we have never seen before," he said these include tricks to hide itself on plcs and usb sticks as well as up to six different methods that allowed it to spread.  in addition, it exploited several previously unknown and unpatched vulnerabilities in windows, known as zero-day exploits.  "it is rare to see an attack using one zero-day exploit," mikko hypponen, chief research officer at security firm f-secure, told bbc news.  "stuxnet used not one, not two, but four." he said cybercriminals and "everyday hackers" valued zero-day exploits and would not "waste" them by bundling so many together. microsoft has so far patched two of the flaws.  mr o'murchu agreed and said that his analysis suggested that whoever had created the worm had put a "huge effort" into it.  "it is a very big project, it is very well planned, it is very well funded," he said.  "it has an incredible amount of code just to infect those machines." his analysis is backed up by other research done by security firms and computer experts.  "with the forensics we now have it is evident and provable that stuxnet is a directed sabotage attack involving heavy insider knowledge," said ralph langner, an industrial computer expert in an analysis he published on the web.  "this is not some hacker sitting in the basement of his parents' house. to me, it seems that the resources needed to stage this attack point to a nation state," he wrote.  mr langner, who declined to be interviewed by the bbc, has drawn a lot of attention for suggesting that stuxnet could have been targeting the bushehr nuclear plant.  in particular, he has highlighted a photograph reportedly taken inside the plant that suggests it used the targeted control systems, although they were "not properly licensed and configured". mr o'murchu said no firm conclusions could be drawn.  however, he hopes that will change when he releases his analysis at a conference in vancouver next week.  "we are not familiar with what configurations are used in different industries," he said.  instead, he hopes that other experts will be able to pore over their research and pinpoint the exact configuration needed and where that is used. a spokesperson for siemens, the maker of the targeted systems, said it would not comment on "speculations about the target of the computer-virus ".  he said that iran's nuclear power plant had been built with help from a russian contractor and that siemens was not involved.  "siemens was neither involved in the reconstruction of bushehr or any nuclear plant construction in iran, nor delivered any software or control system," he said. "siemens left the country nearly 30 years ago." siemens said that it was only aware of 15 infections that had made their way on to control systems in factories, mostly in germany. symantec's geographical analysis of the worm's spread also looked at infected pcs.  "there have been no instances where production operations have been influenced or where a plant has failed," the siemens spokesperson said. "the computer-virus  has been removed in all the cases known to us."   he also said that according to global security standards, microsoft software "may not be used to operate critical processes in plants". it is not the first time that  malware  has been found that affects critical infrastructure, although most incidents occur accidentally, said mr o'murchu, when a computer-virus  intended to infect another system accidentally wreaked havoc with real-world systems.  in 2009 the us government admitted that software had been found that could shut down the nation's power grid.  and mr hypponen said that he was aware of an attack - launched by infected usb sticks - against the military systems of a nato country.  "whether the attacker was successful, we don't know," he said.  mr o'murchu will present his paper on stuxnet at computer-virus  bulletin 2010 in vancouver on 29 september. researchers from kaspersky labs will also unveil new findings at the same event.  the un has warned that burma's reform programme could be put at risk by continued communal violence in the western state of rakhine. an official said 64 people had been killed in violence this week between local buddhists and muslim rohingyas - revising down figures he gave earlier.  thousands of homes have been destroyed as clashes spread across the state.  this is the first serious outburst of violence since june, when a state of emergency was declared in rakhine. at that time deadly clashes claimed dozens of lives and thousands of people were forced to flee their homes - many are yet to return.  a local journalist told bbc burmese the current situation was unclear and that the death toll may yet rise again as reports of killings come in from remote areas of the state.  the bbc's jonathan head in bangkok says that the statement by the un is the strongest yet on the unrest which has gripped the state since june. it warns the government that all its impressive progress on reforming burma's authoritarian political structures could be undone by the damage caused to the country's social fabric if the unrest cannot be stopped, our correspondent says.  "the vigilante attacks,  targeted-threat s and extremist rhetoric must be stopped. if this is not done... the reform and opening up process being currently pursued by the government is likely to be jeopardised," the statement from secretary general ban ki-moon's office said.  but the atmosphere across the state remain volatile, witnesses say, with groups of rakhine buddhists and muslims launching vigilante-style attacks against one another.  on friday six towns were hit by clashes and a night-time curfew is in place in several locations including min bya and mrauk oo where the latest spate of violence began.   it is unclear what prompted the latest clashes. the rakhine buddhists and muslims, believed to be mainly rohingya, blame each other for the violence. in bangladesh, border officials said they believed several boats with rohingyas on board were waiting to try to cross the river from burma. one official said 52 rohingyas had been sent back in the last few days.   it was the rape and murder of a buddhist woman by three muslims in may that set off the initial unrest.  a mob later killed 10 muslims in retaliation, although they were unconnected with the earlier incident, and the violence escalated after that.  in june, about 90 people were killed as clashes spread across the state. the houses of both buddhists and muslims were burnt down and thousands of people fled. muslims throughout burma have abandoned plans to celebrate the festival of eid al-adha because of the violence. there is long-standing tension between the ethnic rakhine people, who make up the majority of the state's population, and muslims, many of whom are rohingya and are stateless.  the burmese authorities regard the rohingya as illegal immigrants and correspondents say there is widespread public hostility to them.     in august burma set up a commission to investigate the violence between buddhists and muslims in the west of the country. authorities earlier rejected a un-led inquiry.  uk firms have been warned about "serious" cyber attacks originating in china that seek to steal trade secrets. the gang behind the attacks has compromised technology service firms and plans to use them as a proxy for attacks, security firms have said. the group, dubbed advanced-persistent-threat 10, is using custom-made  malware  and spear  phishing  to gain access to target companies. the national cyber security centre and cyber units at pwc and bae systems collaborated to identify the group. "operating alone, none of us would have joined the dots to uncover this new campaign of indirect attacks," said richard horne, cyber security partner at pwc. a detailed report drawn up by the three organisations reveals that the group has been active since 2014 but ramped up its attacks in late 2016. in particular, said the report, it targeted firms who ran key it functions on behalf of large uk companies. the anatomy of a nation-state hack attackchinese hackers turn to  ransomware  pwc and bae said the group had mounted many different attacks as part of a campaign they called operation cloud hopper.  by targeting the suppliers of it outsourcing, the attackers were able to stealthily gain access to the networks and systems of their true targets.  dr adrian nish, head of threat intelligence at bae, said the attackers used these third parties as a "stepping stone" to get at the companies and organisations they were really interested in.  infiltrating supply chains gave the attackers an easy route into many different targets. "organisations large and small rely on these providers for management of core systems and as such they can have deep access to sensitive data," he said. "it is impossible to say how many organisations might be impacted altogether at this point."  the security organisations involved in exposing the advanced-persistent-threat 10 campaign say they have seen firms in the uk, europe and japan being targeted by the group. the national cyber security centre and the two security firms have warned known victims that they have been compromised. spear  phishing  emails booby-trapped with custom-made  malware  were sent to key staff in it services firms in the first stage of an attack. once the hackers had won access they sought out intellectual property and other sensitive data.  the hacking group maintained a massive network of sites and domains online to serve their various attacks and as a conduit for data they stole, said dr nish. forensic analysis of the times when the attackers were most active as well as the tools and techniques they used led pwc and bae to conclude that the group was based in china.  they have not established who is behind the advanced-persistent-threat 10 group or how it chooses its targets. a new threat targeting infrastructure in the energy industry has been uncovered by security specialists. the attack, known as shamoon, is said to have hit "at least one organisation" in the sector. shamoon is capable of wiping files and rendering several computers on a network unusable. on wednesday, saudi arabia's national oil company said an attack had led to its own network being taken offline. although saudi aramco did not link the issue to the shamoon threat, it did confirm that the company had suffered a "sudden disruption". in a statement, the company said it had now isolated its computer networks as a precautionary measure. the disruptions were "suspected to be the result of a computer-virus  that had infected personal workstations without affecting the primary components of the network", a statement read. it said the attack had had "no impact whatsoever" on production operations. on thursday, security firms released the first detailed information about shamoon. experts said the threat was known to have had hit "at least one organisation" in the energy sector. "it is a destructive  malware  that corrupts files on a compromised computer and overwrites the mbr (master boot record) in an effort to render a computer unusable," wrote security firm symantec. the attack was designed to penetrate a computer through the internet, before targeting other machines on the same network that were not directly connected to the internet. once infected, the machines' data is wiped. a list of the wiped files then sent back to the initially infected computer, and in turn passed on to the attacker's command-and-control centre. during this process, the attack replaces the deleted files with jpeg images - obstructing any potential file recovery by the victim. seculert, an israel-based security specialist, also analysed the malicious code and concluded that it had unusual characteristics compared with other recent attacks. "the interesting part of this  malware  is that instead of staying under the radar and collect information, the  malware  was designed to overwrite and wipe the files," the company said. "why would someone wipe files in a  targeted-threat  and make the machine unusable?" shamoon is the latest in a line of attacks that have targeted infrastructure. one of the most high-profile attacks in recent times was stuxnet, which was designed to hit nuclear infrastructure in iran. others, like duqu, have sought to infiltrate networks in order to steal data. robots that train themselves in battle tactics by playing video games could be used to mount cyber-attacks, the uk military fears. the warning is in a ministry of defence report on artificial intelligence. researchers in silicon valley are using strategy games, such as starcraft ii, to teach systems how to solve complex problems on their own. but artificial intelligence (ai) programs can then "be readily adapted" to wage cyber-warfare, the mod says. officials are particularly concerned about the ability of rogue states and terrorists to mount  advanced-persistent-threat  attacks, which can disable critical infrastructure and steal sensitive information. human trounces ai at starcraft game'nightmare' robots show off softer sideai plays video game to learn about world "not only will ai increase the variety and tempo of cyber-attacks, it will also decrease the cost and increase the variety of actors able to undertake this activity," the report says.  "as the requirement for skilled specialists involved in the attack diminishes, the limitation will become access to the ai algorithms needed to conduct such an attack.  "in other words, any actor with the financial resources to buy, or steal, an ai advanced-persistent-threat  ( advanced-persistent-threat ) system could gain access to tremendous offensive cyber-capability, even if that actor is relatively ignorant of internet security technology.  "given that the cost of replicating software can be nearly zero, that may hardly present any constraint at all. this is likely to be a live issue by 2020 or soon thereafter.  "for example, the state-of-the-art ai is being trained in tactical reasoning by playing computer strategy games.  "ais like this could then be readily adapted to drive advanced-persistent-threat  cyber-attack tactics, where the ai is competing against human or non-adaptive automated cyber-defenders." the report cites google's deepmind artificial intelligence research project, which is using starcraft ii - a real-time strategy game for pc and mac users, launched in 2010 - to train programs to think for themselves. london-based deepmind, which says it is committed to making the world a "better place" through artificial intelligence, by solving complex problems such as climate change, has also used atari and go games to train its systems. but, like other artificial intelligence researchers, those at deepmind were attracted to the complexity and fast-moving nature of starcraft, which involves a three-way conflict between humans, the insectoid zerg and protoss aliens.  deepmind said testing its artificial intelligence "agents" in games "that are not specifically designed for artificial intelligence research, and where humans play well" was "crucial" to their development.  starcraft players build bases to gather resources that help make combat units to seek out and destroy opponents. other technology companies, including facebook, have now developed artificial intelligence malicious-bot  to play the game after makers, blizzard entertainment, released tools to enable them to do so. human players trounced artificial intelligence malicious-bot  made by facebook, deepmind and other companies in a starcraft tournament in november, suggesting there is still some way to go before the robots take over. steven murdoch, an information security research fellow at university college london, said artificial intelligence malicious-bot  with the ability to carry out sophisticated cyber-attacks on their own were "fairly far away". even those that could play games, such as go and starcraft, against humans were "not very creative" and relied on following "a simple set of rules".  "as technology advances, more automation will be available, particularly for the delivery of  malware , but the preparation of attacks and development of tactics will still require human expertise for the foreseeable future," he told bbc news. ai programs could be stolen and misused, as the mod says in its report, but current systems "are quite specific to a particular task and it takes considerable skill and expertise to adapt a system to a new application area," he added. the mod report says the private sector is leading the way in artificial intelligence research - and the technology industry's reluctance to appear too close to defence or security agencies is creating a skills shortage in the military. "some western commercial entities have publicly declared policies stating they will not contract with defence or security agencies, which may compound the challenges facing the mod," says the report.  "this is in stark contrast to other states, which have enshrined access rights to expertise, technology and data in their national legislation." the report proposes setting up a register "of security cleared uk nationals with ai and robotics skills" to be called on in times of emergency. the us justice department has indicted two chinese men accused of hacking into the computer networks of companies and government agencies in western countries.   the pair are allegedly part of a "hacking group" known as  advanced-persistent-threat  10, affiliated with china's main intelligence service. they have not been arrested. the us and uk have accused china of violating an agreement relating to commercial espionage. zhu hua and zhang shilong worked for a company called huaying haitai and in association with the chinese ministry of state security, the us court filing says. the federal bureau of investigation (fbi) said that from at least 2006 until 2018, the two extensively hacked into computer systems with the aim of stealing intellectual property and confidential business and technological information from: at least 45 commercial and defence technology companies in at least 12 us statesmanaged service providers (msps) and their government and commercial clients in at least 12 countries, including the uk, brazil, canada, finland, france, germany, india, japan, sweden, switzerland, and the uae, as well as the usus government agencies the fbi said they had also hacked into us navy computer systems and stolen the personal information of more than 100,000 personnel. fbi director christopher wray said the two men were at present "beyond us jurisdiction". announcing the unsealing of the indictments, us deputy attorney general rod rosenstein said china had violated a 2015 agreement under which it had pledged to not engage in commercial cyber-spying. mr rosenstein said his department's move had been co-ordinated with us allies in europe and asia to rebuff "china's economic aggression". he added: "we want china to cease its illegal cyber activities." the uk government said it was joining allies in holding the chinese government responsible for a global campaign targeting commercial secrets. uk foreign secretary jeremy hunt said: "this campaign is one of the most significant and widespread cyber intrusions against the uk and allies uncovered to date, targeting trade secrets and economies around the world. "these activities must stop. they go against the commitments made to the uk in 2015, and, as part of the g20, not to conduct or support cyber-enabled theft of intellectual property or trade secrets." australia and new zealand said they too held china responsible for the global hacking campaign and joined their "like-minded partners" in condemning the activity. by gordon corera, security correspondent this is the latest salvo in washington's attempt to pressure beijing on a range of issues, with economic espionage one of the most high-profile.  us and uk officials are reluctant to name the companies that have been hit but they say the economic damage has been significant. the hackers, officials say, work under the direction of china's ministry of state security - one of the country's intelligence organisations. "it is organised more like a corporation than a gang," one uk official says, adding that british intelligence has the highest level of confidence in their assessment of who was responsible.  the uk and us believe china is breaking a 2015 agreement not to steal commercial data to help its companies. there was a dip in activity after the deal was signed (which followed a period of pressure by washington, including the indictment of chinese military hackers and the threat of sanctions).  but us and uk sources both say that recently they have seen chinese hackers return, now operating more stealthily, whereas in the past they were easier to spot.   where the us has been vocal in recent months, this is the first time the uk has spoken out - perhaps because it has been concerned about risking trade ties and getting pulled into the trump administration's broader confrontation with beijing.   uk officials say they have raised the matter privately a number of times with beijing over the last two years, including during the prime minister's visit earlier this year, and officials are keen to stress that they think the relationship with china is strong enough to allow them to address these issues without causing wider problems. read more from gordon corera a security bug that has infected thousands of smartphones has been uncovered by campaign group the electronic frontier foundation (eff). working with mobile security firm lookout, researchers discovered that  malware  in fake messaging designed to look like whatsapp and signal had stolen gigabytes of data. targets included military personnel, activists, journalists and lawyers. researchers say they traced the  malware  to a lebanese government building. the threat, dubbed dark caracal by the researchers, looks as if it could come from a nation state and appears to use shared infrastructure linked to other nation-state hackers, the report said. the  malware  takes advantage of known exploits and targets mainly android phones. data was traced back to a server in a building belonging to the lebanese general security directorate in beirut, according to researchers. "based on the available evidence, it is likely that the gdgs is associated with or directly supporting the actors behind dark caracal," the report said. "people in the us, canada, germany, lebanon, and france have been hit by dark caracal. targets include military personnel, activists, journalists, and lawyers, and the types of stolen data range from call records and audio recordings to documents and photos," said eff director of cybersecurity eva galperin.  "this is a very large, global campaign, focused on mobile devices. mobile is the future of spying, because phones are full of so much data about a person's day-to-day life." mike murray, vice-president of security intelligence at lookout said: "dark caracal is part of a trend we've seen mounting over the past year whereby traditional  advanced-persistent-threat  actors are moving toward using mobile as a primary target platform." in a statement published on the lookout blog, google said it was confident that the infected apps were not downloaded from its play store. "google has identified the apps associated with this actor, none of the apps were on the google play store. google play protect has been updated to protect user devices from these apps and is in the process of removing them from all affected devices." the researchers believe dark caracal has been operating since 2012 but it has been hard to track because of the diversity of seemingly unrelated espionage campaigns originating from the same domain names. over the years dark caracal's work has been repeatedly misattributed to other cybercrime groups, the researchers said. in november, afghanistan moved to ban whatsapp and telegram as a way to stop insurgent groups from using  encryption  messaging. and in december, iran moved to restrict use of the apps after a series of anti-establishment protests. use of an app that can steal data would give nation states much more information than simply banning them, said prof alan woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the university of surrey. "it is always hard to prove that a nation state is involved. during the cold war, countries made use of mercenaries and that's what we are seeing online now." he said it was unclear where the infected apps had been downloaded from. "google is saying that they were not downloaded from there but it is difficult to know where else they came from. it may be that people are getting suckered into something that looks like an official site. people need to be careful what they are downloading." russia has arrested 50 people accused of using  malware  to steal more than 1.7bn roubles ($25m; £18m). the gang allegedly seeded websites with  malware  that gave them access to victims' pcs and, from there, their bank accounts. technical tricks used by the hackers made it hard for security software to spot the malicious code once it had compromised a machine. it is believed to be the largest ever arrest of hackers in russia. the russian authorities carried out raids in 15 regions across the country to round up the gang, the fsb internal security service said. "as a result of [house] searches a large quantity of computer equipment was confiscated along with communications gear, bank cards in false names, and also financial documents and significant amounts of cash confirming the illegal nature of their activity," the fsb said. the gang is believed to have stolen cash using a malicious  spyware  called lurk that it hid on some of russia's most popular websites.  anyone visiting a website booby-trapped with lurk would be infected with the  malware . once on a victim's pc, the  malware  then downloaded more software modules, giving the cyber thieves remote access to the machine.  this was used to steal login names and passwords for online bank accounts. in particular, they targeted accounts held at sberbank - one of russia's largest banks. "lurk started attacking banks one-and-a-half years ago; before then its malicious program targeted various enterprise and consumer systems," said ruslan stoyanov, head of computer incident investigation at kaspersky lab that helped uncover the gang's activities.  mr stoyanov said kaspersky helped police profile the gang's network of computers and servers used to grab cash, and from that information they were able to trace the individuals involved.  the arrests helped to thwart pending money transfers that would have netted the group a further 2.3bn roubles, the fsb said. russian security firm group ib, which profiles cyber crime groups in eastern europe, said the lurk gang had been operating since 2011.  the group initially went after clients of banks but had recently changed focus, said group ib spokesman victor ivanovsky. "in recent months we have detected a growing activity in performing  advanced-persistent-threat  (apt) attacks on russian banks by the lurk group," he said. attacks that use advanced-persistent-threat  techniques are typically the hardest to defend against because they are carefully customised for each target and can exploit formerly unknown vulnerabilities to get around security software.  the lurk group switched to advanced-persistent-threat -based attacks in early 2016 when the source code for the well-known buhtrap  malware  was made public.  the gang used buhtrap to craft emails that looked like they came from industry groups that certify bank and accounting staff, in an attempt to trick people into opening messages containing lurk.  the us and uk governments have said north korea was responsible for the  ransomware   malware  attack affecting hospitals, businesses and banks across the world earlier this year. the attack is said to have hit more than 300,000 computers in 150 nations, causing billions of dollars of damage. it is the first time the us and uk have officially blamed them for the worm. thomas bossert, an aide to us president donald trump, first made the accusation in the wall street journal newspaper. mr bossert, who advises the president on homeland security, said the allegation was "based on evidence". he did not produce any evidence in the article, but said us findings concurred with judgments from other governments and private companies. he added that australia, canada, and new zealand also share the us conclusion that north korea was behind the attack. following the interview, the uk foreign office also blamed "north korean actors using their cyber programme to circumvent sanctions". the national cyber security centre assessed that is "highly likely" that the north korean lazarus hacking group had committed the attacks, minister for cyber lord ahmad said in a statement. in may, windows computers hit by the cyber-attack had their contents locked, with users asked to a pay a ransom to have their data restored. eu police body europol called the scale of the attack "unprecedented". analysis: gordon corera, bbc security correspondent  britain's national cyber security centre, part of the gchq signals intelligence agency, first attributed the may 2017  ransomware  attack to north korea within weeks of the  ransomware  spreading.  the speed was because the uk led the international investigation after the national health service was hit hard.  the us intelligence community may have taken longer to concur with that assessment but there is still the question of why the white house is only going public now.  governments used to be cautious about attribution in cyber attacks but it is becoming increasingly common - beginning with the claim north korea was behind the attack on sony in 2014 and more recently involving russia's alleged hacking in the 2016 us election.  this latest claim is almost certainly an attempt to put more pressure on north korea in the crisis over its nuclear programme with the attempt to rally international support behind the notion that the country is a real danger - whether from cyber weapons or nuclear weapons. and to make the case that further action, of some kind, needs to be contemplated. in the wall street journal piece, mr bossert said north korea must be held "accountable" and that the us would continue to use a "maximum pressure strategy" to hinder the regime's ability to mount cyber-attacks. he did not specify what action, if any, the us government planned to take in response to the findings. north korea is already facing major economic sanctions after being redesignated a state-sponsor of terrorism last month amid tension over its nuclear programme and missile tests.   malware , patches and worms defineduk say cyber-attack was 'launched from north korea' "north korea has acted especially badly, largely unchecked, for more than a decade, and its malicious behaviour is growing more egregious.  ransomware  was indiscriminately reckless," mr bossert wrote.   "as we make the internet safer, we will continue to hold accountable those who harm or threaten us, whether they act alone or on behalf of criminal organisations or hostile nations," he went on. "the tool kits of totalitarian regimes are too threatening to ignore."  he added that microsoft and facebook both acted to disable north korean cyber-attacks "on their own initiative last week, without any direction or participation by the us". microsoft later issued a statement, saying that last week the company "working together with facebook and others in the security community, took strong steps to protect our customers and the internet from ongoing attacks by an  advanced-persistent-threat  actor known to us as zinc, also known as the lazarus group". "among other steps, last week we helped disrupt the  malware  this group relies on, cleaned customers' infected computers, disabled accounts being used to pursue cyber-attacks and strengthened windows defences to prevent reinfection," the statement said. however, some social media users said that - while crediting microsoft and facebook - mr bossert did not mention a uk security researcher who had "accidentally" halted the spread of the  malware . the 22-year-old man, known by the pseudonym  malware tech, managed to bring the spread to a halt when he found what appeared to be a "kill switch" in the rogue software's code. in the uk, the national health service (nhs) was hit particularly hard by the cyber-attack, with 48 affected health trusts forced to turn many patients away for appointments and even surgeries. it spread across the world, with russia reportedly being badly hit, causing problems to the country's postal service. in 2014, the us claimed north korea were behind cyber-attacks on sony pictures, after it released a film featuring the fictional killing of its leader kim jong-un.   a guide to the cyber-attack on hollywood the entertainment company had its films leaked and details of corporate finances and private emails released online. the north koreans hit out at former president barack obama over the claim, but has not yet responded to the white house accusations about the  ransomware  hack. in october it said rumours from a uk government minister that they were behind the 2017 attack was "groundless speculation", and a "wicked attempt" to tighten international sanctions on the country. hackers associated with the chinese government broke into the computers of airlines and military contractors over 20 times in a single year, according to the us senate. the attacks were allegedly targeted at systems that move troops and equipment. they included breaking in to computers on a commercial ship and uploading  malware  on to an airline's computers, the senate report alleged. chinese officials denied the allegations. a year-long investigation was concluded in march, but the findings have only just been made public. in a 12-month period from june 2012, it found evidence of about 50 cyber-attacks on military contractors.  of those, 20 were attributed to "an  advanced-persistent-threat ", a term associated with attacks on governments. all were attributed to china. the report did not disclose the names of the affected contractors. "these peacetime intrusions into the networks of key defence contractors are more evidence of china's aggressive actions in cyberspace," senator carl levin, chairman of the committee, said. chinese embassy officials in washington questioned the report, calling the accusations "groundless". the row between china and the us over cyber-attacks has been a long-running one. the chinese government has previously accused us spies of infiltrating its computer networks. in may the us government accused five chinese military members of hacking into and stealing trade secrets from the computers of several large us companies. the latest report revealed that officials had only been told about two of these incidents. it also found that us government agencies had failed to share the information about the attacks among themselves. this lack of transparency from contractors has raised questions and prompted calls for new procedures about how such hacks are reported. senator jim inhofe, who sits on the committee, called for a central clearinghouse to make it easier for contractors to report suspicious cyber-activity. according to the report, contractors are only required to report network-level cyber-intrusions.  paul dignan, from security firm f5 networks, said: "a lot of attacks target end-users with  malware  so that they can piggyback on legitimate access to the network. "firms use lots of security vendors but there are also lots of gaps and, without adequate integration, it is these gaps that will be exploited." the bbc has seen evidence that appears to confirm hackers stole several secret military documents from two government-owned israeli companies that developed the iron dome missile defence system. the breaches were first publicised by security blogger brian krebs on monday. the companies denied their classified networks had been infiltrated. however, the team that discovered the incidents has given the bbc access to an intelligence report, which indicates hundreds of files were indeed copied. the documents, which were stolen over a period of many months, relate to: arrow iii missilesunmanned aerial vehicles (uavs), commonly known as dronesballistic rockets cyber engineering services (cyberesi) tracked the activities of the hackers over eight months between 2011 and 2012. it said the data taken by the hackers suggested they had been after intelligence relating to iron dome. iron dome is a complex anti-missile defence system, which can intercept and destroy rockets and shells. the technology has been widely credited with preventing the deaths of many israeli civilians during the ongoing conflict with militants from gaza. cyberesi's report, compiled in 2013, also indicates the attacks were made using highly sophisticated tools resembling those used by chinese hackers to infiltrate us defence firms - an attack in which the chinese government denies any involvement. "the data collected makes strong indications that the actors behind this attack originated from china," it says. "this assertion is based on the activity during the past year that cyber engineering services has observed on compromised networks, as well as the geo-location of the ip [internet protocol] addresses retrieving the exfiltrated data." "the nature of exfiltrated data and the industry that these companies are involved in suggests that the chinese hackers were after information related to israel's all-weather air defence system called iron dome." cyberesi, which operates out of maryland in the us, monitored data being stolen from two leading israeli defence contractors: israel aerospace industries (iai), a government-owned company that develops missiles and aircraftrafael advanced defense systems, a government-owned company established in 1948, which develops surface-to-air missiles a spokeswoman for iai initially confirmed to mr krebs the attack had taken place and been "reported to the appropriate authorities". however iai subsequently said the "information reported regarding the leakage of sensitive information is incorrect" and only its "civilian non-classified" network had been hacked. a spokesman for rafael said the company did "not recall such an incident". but the report seen by the bbc suggests sensitive data was taken from iai and that rafael's network was compromised, with hackers able to deactivate security software and harvest authentication data, including passwords. in total, the report says, gigabytes of data were stolen from the israeli companies, including: word documentspower point presentationsspreadsheetspdfsexecutable (.exe) files some of the stolen technical documents are said by cyberesi to have contained intellectual property data and were marked as being controlled by us government international traffic in arms (itar) regulations.  both iai and rafael were heavily involved in developing the iron dome missile defence system, which allows israel to intercept rockets fired by hamas from the gaza strip.  the us, which already collaborates with israeli firms over arrow iii - jointly designed by iai and boeing, now wants to invest in future versions of iron dome technologies. in may 2013, the pentagon accused china of carrying out a sophisticated cyber-spying campaign on us diplomatic, economic and defence organisations. the raid on the israeli companies bore similar characteristics, experts at cyberesi told the bbc, using tools that were "known to originate from" china. the attacks were part of an  advanced-persistent-threat  (apt) - a form of highly organised and targeted hacking. advanced-persistent-threat s have been used for industrial espionage in the past and tend to use sophisticated methods not easily available to the vast majority of cyber-thieves.  cyberesi's report also featured a third israeli company, elisra, originally a us company and now a leading supplier to the israel defense forces (idf). elisra, which is not involved in iron dome, appears to have been comprehensively infiltrated by the hackers, who stole data from folders named "military spacs" and "uav" and infiltrated the email accounts belonging to the chief executive and several senior managers. the attackers also stole passwords and sign-in details, allowing them to roam around the networks undetected.  elisra did not respond to a bbc request for comment. in january 2014, another security company reported that 15 israeli defence computers had been compromised via a malicious email attachment. china's military says a report linking it to prolific hacking of us targets is flawed. in a statement, the defence ministry said the report lacked "technical proof" when it used ip addresses to link hacking to a military unit.  the report identified a shanghai high-rise used by the military as the likely home of a hackers to whom it attributed multiple attacks on us companies.   the us says it has repeatedly raised concerns with china about cyber theft.  the chinese ministry statement, posted on its website, said that many hacking attacks were carried out using hijacked ip addresses. there was no clear definition of what constituted a hacking attack, it went on, and as it was a cross-border, deceptive business, it was hard to pin down where attacks originated. it suggested that the "everyday gathering" of online information was being wrongly characterised as spying.  the detailed report, released on tuesday by us-based computer security company mandiant, looked at hundreds of data breaches, most of which it attributed to what it termed " advanced-persistent-threat " actors. the details it had uncovered, it said, showed that these groups were based primarily in china and that the beijing government was aware of them. the most prolific of these actors was advanced-persistent-threat 1, mandiant said, describing it as "one of the most prolific cyber espionage groups in terms of the sheer quantity of information stolen".  the firm said it had traced the hacking activities of advanced-persistent-threat 1 to a shanghai building. unit 61398 of the people's liberation army "is also located in precisely the same area" and the actors had similar "missions, capabilities and resources", it added. advanced-persistent-threat 1, it said, was staffed by hundreds of proficient english speakers. it had hacked into 141 companies across 20 industries, stealing information including blueprints, business plans, pricing documents, user credentials, emails and contact lists.  spokesman jay carney said the white house was "aware" of the mandiant report and its contents. while not commenting directly, he described cyber espionage as a "very important challenge".  "we have repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest levels about cyber-theft with senior chinese officials including in the military and we will continue to do so," he said.   state department spokeswoman victoria nuland, meanwhile, said that the issue came up "in virtually every meeting we have with chinese officials".    "we consider this kind of activity a threat not only to our national security but also to our economic interests and [we are] laying out our concerns specifically so that we can see if there's a path forward," she said. china has long been suspected of a role in cyber hacking. but the issue has become more high-profile in recent months following widely reported hacks into media outlets including the new york times - in that case apparently linked to a report by the paper on the wealth of relatives of outgoing premier wen jiabao.  the chinese defence ministry statement pointed out that china was also a victim of hacking attacks.  a global times editorial accused the us and its major allies of hyping up a china hacking "threat".  "china should refute the allegations of us company mandiant with authoritative reports from its technology sector," it said.  "as a long-term counter-measure, china needs to encourage those institutions and individuals who have been subject to cyber-attacks from us ip addresses to stand up and tell the world what happened to them."  hackers who broke into the international monetary fund's computer system may have been backed by a nation state, according to security experts. they point to the sophisticated nature of the attack and the resources needed to develop it.  malware , designed to steal confidential files, was installed on at least one imf computer. although government involvement is widely suspected, the imf has not released enough details to be sure. based on the limited information made public, it appears that the attack came from a specific pc that had been deliberately infected. hacker software was likely to have been installed on it in what is known as a spear- phishing  attack, which sees highly targeted scam e-mails sent to specific victims. a memo circulated internally at the imf reported that "suspicious file transfers" had been detected. tom kellerman, a security expert who has worked for the imf and now sits on the board of the international cyber security protection alliance told reuters news agency that it was "a  targeted-threat " with code written specifically to give a nation state a "digital insider presence" on the imf network. graham titherington, a security analyst with research firm ovum agreed with the nation state theory. "any attack that shows money, time and resources went on it points to a state attack. states and their intelligence agencies have far more resources than criminal gangs," he said. the information held by the imf would clearly be most valuable to a country, he added. "it has masses of economic information from the performance of countries to the state of their balance sheets. for countries deciding where to invest it is invaluable," he said. state-sponsored hacking has gained prominence in recent months. "google shifted the debate by going public on a hack attack believed to be by china," said mr titherington. the chinese government has denied involvement in the recent attack on google's e-mail accounts. the incident compromised the personal gmail accounts of hundreds of top us officials, military personnel and journalists. google said that the campaign to obtain passwords originated in the chinese city of jinan and was aimed at monitoring e-mail. according to mark darvill, director of security firm aep networks, many countries are involved in cyber espionage but china remained at the "forefront". "china has recently set up a cyber terrorism unit which is very likely to be looking at opportunities rather than to stop attacks," he said. not everyone is convinced that state-sponsored attacks or  advanced-persistent-threat  (apts) are the cause of the imf hack. tal be'ery, a web researcher at security firm imperva said it could be a "convenient excuse". "it is easier for organisations to hide under this excuse when really it is something lacking in their defences.  "we don't have enough credible information about the imf attack. it needs to provide good evidence that it was a advanced-persistent-threat . it is just as likely to be a lone hacker acting out of curiosity," he said. the most high profile state-sponsored attack to date remains the stuxnet worm, which targeted iran's nuclear facilities. experts believe the complex malicious code originated from either the israeli or us governments. a secretive branch of china's military is probably one of the world's "most prolific cyber espionage groups", a us cyber security firm has said.  mandiant said unit 61398 was believed to have "systematically stolen hundreds of terabytes of data" from at least 141 organisations around the world. the white house said it has taken its concerns about cyber-theft to the highest levels of china's government. china has denied hacking and questioned mandiant's report. "hacking attacks are transnational and anonymous," said foreign ministry spokesman hong lei. "determining their origins are extremely difficult. we don't know how the evidence in this so-called report can be tenable. mr hong added that beijing "firmly opposes hacking", has taken steps to prevent it and is also a victim of cyber attacks. in an indication of the military sensitivity around the shanghai site pinpointed by the report as home to the hacking group, the bbc's john sudworth and his camera crew were briefly detained by soldiers when they went to film the facility. they were only released once they had handed over their footage. in its unusually detailed report, us-based computer security company mandiant said it had investigated hundreds of data breaches since 2004, most of which it attributed to what it termed " advanced-persistent-threat " actors. the details it had uncovered, it said, "convince us that the groups conducting these activities are based primarily in china and that the chinese government is aware of them". the most prolific of these actors is advanced-persistent-threat 1, which mandiant says is "a single organisation of operators that has conducted a cyber espionage campaign against a broad range of victims since at least 2006".  "from our observations, it is one of the most prolific cyber espionage groups in terms of the sheer quantity of information stolen," it said, adding that it was "likely government-sponsored and one of the most persistent of china's cyber threat actors".  "we believe that advanced-persistent-threat 1 is able to wage such a long-running and extensive cyber espionage campaign in large part because it receives direct government support," said mandiant. the firm said it had traced the hacking activities of advanced-persistent-threat 1 to the site of 12-storey building in the pudong area of shanghai. it said that unit 61398 of the people's liberation army "is also located in precisely the same area" and that the actors had similar "missions, capabilities and resources". among the findings about advanced-persistent-threat 1 in the report were that it: is staffed by hundreds, possibly thousands, of proficient english speakers with advanced computer security and networking skillshas hacked into 141 companies across 20 industries, 87% based in english-speaking countries, and is able to steal from dozens of networks simultaneouslyhas stolen hundreds of terabytes of information including blueprints, business plans, pricing documents, user credentials, emails and contact lists stayed inside hacked networks for an average of 356 days, with the longest lasting 1,764 daystargeted industries identified by china as strategically important under its five year plan for economic growth unit 61398 has for some time been suspected by the us of being central to china's cyber espionage programme, the new york times reports.  mandiant admitted there could be one alternative explanation for its findings: that "a secret, resourced organisation full of mainland chinese speakers with direct access to shanghai-based telecommunications infrastructure is engaged in a multi-year, enterprise scale computer espionage campaign right outside of unit 61398's gates, performing tasks similar to unit 61398's known mission". several governments, foreign companies and organisations have said in the past they suspect china of carrying out extensive cyber espionage over periods of several years. on tuesday, white house spokesman jay carney told reporters that the obama administration had "repeatedly raised our concerns at the highest levels about cyber theft with senior chinese officials including in the military and we will continue to do so".  mr carney declined to comment specifically on the contents of the report. last month, the new york times said its systems had been infiltrated over a period of four months, after it wrote a report on the alleged wealth of china's outgoing premier wen jiabao. mandiant, which the paper hired to investigate, traced the hack to china. however, the paper said its breach had been attributed to a different group. the wall street journal also reported a china-based hack. at the time, china's foreign ministry dismissed the new york times accusations as "groundless", saying that to "conclude without hard evidence that china participated in such hacking attacks is totally irresponsible". at least 29 firms involved in the chemicals industry were targeted by a recent series of cyber-attacks traced to china, according to symantec. the security company said it had evidence a further 19 companies, including defence specialists, had also been affected. it said the attacks began in late july and lasted until mid-september. symantec said the campaign was focused on intellectual property, including formulas and design processes. while the report did not reveal the names of any of the companies involved, it did say they included fortune 100 firms.  it disclosed that at least 12 of the infected companies were based in the us, five in the uk, and two in denmark. several of the firms were also said to have developed materials for military vehicles. us giant dow chemicals confirmed to the bbc that it had been the target of "unusual emails" received during the summer. "dow engaged internal and external response teams, including law enforcement, to address the situation," he said.  "as a result, we have no reason to believe our operations were compromised." symantec said workers at the organisations were sent emails asking them to open an attachment. it said in some cases they claimed to be invitations from established business partners, in others a security update. the firm said if the attachments were opened they installed a piece of code known as a  spyware  horse, which allowed the hackers to obtain details of the targets' computer networks. the attackers were then able to use this information to locate and copy files to another part of their targets' systems, from where they were extracted.  symantec identified the  spyware  involved as poisonivy, which it said was developed by a chinese speaker. the firm also said it had traced the attacks back to a "20-something male located in the hebei region of china" who funnelled the process through a us computer server. symantec said that when prompted, the man provided contact details for someone who would "perform hacking for hire". however, the company was unable to establish whether this was the same person or a different individual. the incidents are being linked to earlier attacks on carmakers and human rights organisations. "this is unfortunately becoming a new normal behaviour," symantec's chief technology officer, greg day, told the bbc. "we had at least a decade of cybercrime which generally targeted anybody. then we had the emergence of very skilled techniques involving a lot of time and effort to target global organisations." "what we have now is almost the commercialisation of those techniques, using elements such as  advanced-persistent-threat s to pursue espionage and intellectual property theft, whether that is for their own gain or resale." although those of us following the mayan long calendar may be heading into 2012 with some trepidation, for those taking a longer-term view here is our annual peek into what next year holds. just as there are 12 days of christmas, 12 people from across the technology spectrum give their insights to what the next year will hold.  we have the first six here, with part two following on friday. it's been a turbulent year for technology, and enterprise is no exception.  the consumerisation of it continues apace with more and more of us bringing our own devices to work. cloud computing seems to be almost ubiquitous and virtualisation no longer sounds like something to do with the transporter in star trek.  these topics and more all made it into last year's predictions. so what do the experts think is hovering on the horizon in 2012? number one would be social networking in business. i think this is going to be very significant, because there are a number of reasons why companies might want to do this. i think they've been slow to because of the perception that using social networks is wasting time, what you might call social not-working. and in fact the opposite is true. i think the chances are that the future of enterprise software looks like facebook.  we're seeing some companies adopting this already through systems like chatter, salesforce, yammer and jive - there's a whole bunch of them. the other thing of course is that people entering the workforce at this point are used to using social media, so if you give them enterprise software that looks like facebook, they'll feel right at home.  another thing to watch for is that google may lose control of android. it's because the tablet market is going to be divided between amazon and apple from the looks of things. it's very hard to see how anyone else can get in in the middle.  amazon can subsidise the cost of its tablets using subsidies from the sale of content and other things. they are essentially portable shops, a very clever idea.  i think it's entirely possible that they dominate at the bottom end, and apple dominates at the top end because it has scale, it can buy screen and processing power like no-one else can and it has the pricing power of its incredibly strong brand.  this is a problem for google because if this does happen that means that the dominant kind of android tablet is the kind where android itself is sort of hidden and is controlled by amazon. the third thing is what happens to research in motion (rim). someone will buy them i think. the question is will they buy the whole of rim in its current form. rim itself could split in two into its hardware and services division and start offering blackberry services as an app. i would be very surprised if rim is still a company in its current form this time next year. one of my predictions from last year i would like to reiterate, and that is wireless payments.  i was expecting the iphone that came out this year to have an nfc (near field communication) chip in it and to shake up wireless payments.  it didn't happen. i'm still convinced it's going to happen, i think it's going to happen next year, and the iphone 5 will have an nfc chip in it.  this i predict will be the latest example of where apple blesses a technology that is out there but not really being done properly, and apple comes along and goes: "this is how you do it." firstly big data is just getting bigger and starting to really impact not just the it organisations and the people that know how to deal with data, but also the everyday knowledge worker, the everyday manager, and the everyday business leader, who have a lot of data they need to get through to make good decisions. number two is that the pace is quickening towards making enterprise software more like consumer software. making it easier to use, faster, with far less training than ever before. and then number three would be mobile. mobile adoption is going mainstream [in business]. organisations are adopting tablets and particularly the ipad at very fast rates, and people want to be able to access their information wherever they are, even if it's just in a meeting next door. i would say [these are] the top three trends we're seeing, in no particular order. i think we're going to see significant press not from apple but about apple. my prediction is that one of the things the iphone 5 will do that will be significant will be to support nfc. nfc is just a trigger to start the process of paying for goods. but nfc doesn't do any good unless merchants have a point of sale capability to accept that.  and given that apple has a tremendous database around their app store and itunes, i would suspect that apple would want to play a part in creating a point of sale ecosystem.  i don't have a lot of details but i kind of suspect that this could be a place where they could play and have a big impact. apple really has been a catalyst for multiple parts of the industry. not to say that google won't continue to accelerate their payment purchasing mobile service. number two is probably around devices.  i think we're going to see windows phone not die a slow death but sort of hold its own.  i think rim isn't done yet. blackberry devices are popular worldwide and in some markets, in the middle east and the uk, they're very popular. and they're certainly very well engrained in enterprises.  rim has got some capabilities and features that the apple, android, even windows phones do not. so i would not count them out yet. there's been enormous coverage of 3d printing. when we invested last year [in a 3d printing company] it was still science fiction, but it is rapidly moving from science fiction to science fact. i think it's an incredibly powerful concept, the idea of consumers being able to choose and make devices and products themselves. i think it's just at that point where the costs are falling very rapidly that it's now becoming more affordable. two years ago it was used by high-end architectural practices and by formula one teams to design and prototype their engines. i think increasingly the smartphone is becoming a sort of remote control for the world around you.  already you can order your food through this device, you can use it to hail a cab, to find concerts, and control the heating in your house. then there's mobile gaming. a lot of vcs (venture capitalists) are probably attacking this theme. facebook gaming is massive - but mobile gaming is still pretty small despite the success of some big names like angry birds. i think a lot of the games which are doing well in ios and android, they are fairly crude rip-offs of what happens on facebook. i think very few companies have really thought deeply about the types of games that fully leverage this device. i think there will be a zynga-sized company or bigger built off the back of mobile.  zynga has probably 50-60% of the social gaming market. the biggest company in mobile gaming has a 1.5% share. i think 2011 was the year of awareness when it comes to  advanced-persistent-threat s [an organised group or government that commits cyber attacks], and sadly 2012 will be the year that  advanced-persistent-threat s continue at an incredible pace to plague the internet.  and i say that because they're relatively simple in their execution, they're taking advantage of relatively simple vulnerabilities, and they produce a lot of output in the form of all the information that becomes available to the perpetrators - which can be used for a number of reasons from espionage to fraud to blackmail. until that becomes very difficult to carry out, then we'll see the popularity of  advanced-persistent-threat s continue to increase. the thing that would stop the vulnerabilities being there is really basic security.  we've been talking about this for years. when you think about the effort it takes to secure a network, it tends to be getting it perfect that takes the effort, it should be relatively easy to secure the basics. what conversation could be carried out today without cloud sneaking in there?  the security needs of the cloud are down to the capabilities of the cloud provider, in the rush towards the cloud i'm sure there will be many situations where the two don't match. bring your own device (byod) - which is the trend for people to buy their own [work] devices - can only increase as each generation becomes more computer literate. that's left organisations with the choice of embracing that trend and proactively developing a stance and policies on byod.  if you ignore it people find ways to bring their favourite device to work and make it work. that can include things like setting up their own wireless access points or driving a hole through your firewall to access their email.  people can be very creative when it comes to using technology they love in the way that they want to use it. the control that the it department has traditionally had over it is perhaps more illusory than they thought.  it is slipping away. the increasing use of mobile devices, and consumerisation, people using their own systems, social computing and social networking, collaboration tools, the rise in software as a service - business units are buying services as opposed to going to the it department for systems. it is a challenging time and it leaders need to be proactive in their approach and changing their attitudes.  the thing that's going to hit most organisations i think is the whole big data explosion.  it is driven by the wider internet of things, the proliferation of connected devices producing a mountain of data.  organisations are always saying: give us better data to help us make better decisions. i think it is on the verge of being able to deliver some of those things. it's not going to be easy, there are all sorts of technology variables to be weighed, but the data can be collected, the data can be analysed. i think the internet of things is going to be one of those potential game changers. mobile has become or is becoming the dominant form of access to the internet.  i think that the whole social thing, the investment bubble on this is going to burst. we've seen some outrageous valuations during the dot.com boom. while i don't think that anyone is suggesting that social is going to go away, they're perhaps going to be a bit more realistic. part two of our look ahead will be published on friday, 30 december. a text-message scam that infects android phones is spreading across the uk, experts have warned. the message - which pretends to be from a package delivery firm, prompts users to install a tracking app - but is actually a malicious piece of  spyware . called flubot, it can take over devices and spy on phones to gather sensitive data, including online banking details. network operator vodafone said millions of the text messages were already being sent, across all networks. "we believe this current wave of flubot  malware  sms attacks will gain serious traction very quickly, and it's something that needs awareness to stop the spread," a spokesman said.  customers should "be especially vigilant with this particular piece of  malware ", he said, and be very careful about clicking on any links in a text message.  other networks, including ee and three, followed with warnings of their own. the national cyber security centre (ncsc) later issued guidance about the threat, including advice on what to do if you have already downloaded the attacker's application by mistake. "if users have clicked a malicious link it's important not to panic - there are actionable steps they can take to protect their devices and their accounts," the ncsc said in a statement. the  malware  also has the ability to send more text messages to an infected user's contacts, helping it spread.  "the seriousness of these malicious text messages is underlined by vodafone making the decision to alert its customers," said ben wood, chief analyst at ccs insight. "this has the potential to become a  dos-attack  attack on mobile networks, given the clear risk that a rogue application can be installed on users' smartphones and start spewing out endless text messages.  "the broader risk for users is a loss of highly sensitive personal data from their phones," he added. fresh warnings over royal mail parcel scamex-police officer 'devastated' by £3k text scamfake nhs vaccine messages sent in banking scam while text message scams claiming to be about a package delivery firm are common, they have mostly focused on  phishing  - trying to trick the user into filling in a form with bank details and other information. this newest wave differs because it tries to install  malware  on the phone itself - and because of the scale of its spread.  one version of the scam reported online pretends to be a text message from dhl, with a link to a website for parcel tracking. if someone using an android phone clicks on the link, they will be taken to a page "explaining" how to install the parcel tracking app using something called an apk. apk files are a way of installing android apps outside of the secure google play store. by default, such applications will be blocked for security reasons, but the scam page includes instructions on how to allow the installation. that can be confusing, as there are some niche genuine cases for installing those kind of apps - such as downloading the fortnite video game, which was removed from the official app store amid a major legal row between its owner and google.  apple iphone users are not affected as those phones cannot install android apks. in a blog post detailing the scam, security researcher paul morrison wrote that he expects the "success rate would be low" due to the hurdles involved. but he said: "with the number of sms being sent out, just a 0.1% success rate could be very profitable." the flubot  malware  has also spread in other countries in recent months - notably spain, germany and poland. kate bevan, computing editor at consumer magazine which? said people have to be "wary" of texts.  "if you're not sure, contact the delivery company's official customer service helpline," she said. "as ever, it's important to make sure that your mobile phone is up to date with security patches. consider also installing mobile security software from a trusted brand." industry body mobile uk said users who receive a suspicious message should forward it to 7726 to report it, a spokesman said - and then delete the message. the unprecedented hacking of celebrity twitter accounts this month was caused by human error and a spear- phishing  attack on twitter employees, the company has confirmed. spear- phishing  is a  targeted-threat  designed to trick people into handing out information such as passwords. twitter said its staff were targeted through their phones. the successful attempt let attackers tweet from celebrity accounts and access their private direct messages. the accounts of microsoft founder bill gates, democratic presidential hopeful joe biden and reality star kim kardashian west were compromised, and shared a bitcoin scam. it reportedly netted the scammers more than $100,000 (£80,000). the attack has raised concerns about the level of access that twitter employees, and subsequently the hackers, have to user accounts. twitter acknowledged that concern in its statement, saying that it was "taking a hard look" at how it could improve its permissions and processes. "access to these tools is strictly limited and is only granted for valid business reasons," the company said. not all the employees targeted in the spear- phishing  attack had access to the in-house tools, twitter said - but they did have access to the internal network and other systems. once the attackers had acquired user credentials to let them inside twitter's network, the next stage of their attack was much easier. they targeted other employees who had access to account controls. by joe tidy, cyber-security reporter twitter isn't clarifying whether or not their employees were duped by an email or a phone call. the consensus in the information security community is that it was the latter.  phonecall spear- phishing , commonly known as  phishing , is bread and butter for the sort of hackers who are suspected of this attack.  the criminals obtained the phone numbers of a handful of twitter staff and, by using friendly persuasion and trickery, got them to hand over usernames and passwords that gave them an initial foothold into the internal system. twitter hack: what went wrong and why it mattersfbi investigates major twitter hack as twitter puts it, the scammers "exploited human vulnerabilities". you can imagine how it possibly went:  hacker to twitter employee: "hi, i'm new to the department and i've locked myself out of the twitter internal portal, can you do me a huge favour and give me the login again?" the fact that twitter staff were susceptible to these basic attacks is embarrassing for a company built on being at the forefront of digital technology and internet culture.  twitter said the initial spear- phishing  attempt happened on 15 july - the same day the accounts were compromised, suggesting the accounts were accessed within hours. "this attack relied on a significant and concerted attempt to mislead certain employees and exploit human vulnerabilities to gain access to our internal systems," the company said. "this was a striking reminder of how important each person on our team is in protecting our service." twitter did not state whether the attack involved voice calls, despite a previous report from bloomberg stating that at least one twitter employee was contacted by attackers through a phone call.  phishing  is most commonly done by email and text message, encouraging recipients to click on links that take them to websites with fake log-in screens. spear- phishing  is a version of the scam targeted at one person or a specific company, and is usually heavily customised to make it more believable. one victim whose account was compromised told the bbc there were several things twitter could have done differently. "they shouldn't give the ability to a single employee to remove both email address on file and two-factor authentication," they said. "i understand why there's a need for this - for example if a dormant account has a very old email that's inaccessible and you've lost your phone or something-  but it should require two employees to sign off." they also said communication from twitter was poor. "it took 10 days to reset this account with no actual personal response from twitter. i literally got a 'click here to continue' automated email from their system when they added my email back to the account to allow me to reset it - and it looked like a  phishing  email." a nigerian businessman, who once appeared on the cover of forbes magazine, has been jailed for 10 years in the us over a cyber fraud scam that led to the theft of about $11m (£8m).  obinwanne okeke, also known as invictus obi, used nigerian-based companies to defraud people in the us. his companies used  phishing  emails to steal funds from victims. in 2016 forbes africa listed okeke among the most influential businesspeople under the age of 30. from around 2015 to 2019, he was part of a group which engaged in a conspiracy to conduct various computer-based frauds, including creating fake websites, the us attorney's office in the eastern district of virginia said in a statement after he was sentenced. it added that the 33-year-old, who was arrested two years ago, used "subterfuge and impersonation" to lure his victims.  africa live: stories from across the continent why nigerian cyber fraudsters are 'role models''we nigerians are not all criminals' okeke's invictus group companies were also accused of working with conspirators to create profiles of hundreds of victims including people in the us's eastern district of virginia. in one  phishing  attack in 2018 the fraudsters managed to gain access to the email of a manager at unatrac holding limited, the export sales office for caterpillar's heavy industrial and farm equipment. they made fraudulent wire transfers to the value of nearly $11m, and moved the funds overseas.  okeke's sentencing demonstrated the us authorities' determination to pursue international cybercriminals no matter where they committed their crimes, said the statement from the attorney's office in the eastern district of virginia.  computing giant microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the uk, us, germany, japan and china has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years.  yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. however, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting microsoft's widely-used exchange email system. and the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. so is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more pcs, or should businesses be more worried? firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a pc.  increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing  malware  that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the pc to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. this is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect  malware , because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. microsoft hack: 3,000 uk email servers unsecuredhundreds of uk firms hacked in global cyber-crisiscyber-flaw affects 745,000 pacemakers security experts have told the bbc that even if it departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "people don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains australian cyber-security researcher robert potter.  mr potter built the washington post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the australian government on cyber-security. "firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." there have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as robbinhood, a  ransomware  that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then  encryption  all files until a bitcoin ransom has been paid. this  malware  held the data of several us city governments hostage in may 2019.  another example is thunderspy, an attack that utilises the direct memory access (dma) function that pc hardware components use to talk to each other. this attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is  encryption , the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "if device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains chris boyd, a  malware  intelligence analyst at security firm  malware bytes.   "remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." the good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to gabriel cirlig, a security researcher with us cyber-security firm human (formerly white ops). "it is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the bbc. typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users.  firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem.  the national institute of standards and technology (nist), an agency within the us department of commerce, continually updates a national vulnerability database (nvd) with new security flaws. the database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity.  carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says mr cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data.  nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "this is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as  phishing  scams,  malware  or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the bbc spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security. "firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says mr boyd.  "it's like when  ransomware  first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." mr boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point mt cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger.  "microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says mr potter.  "as we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. and if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it." police have warned students in the uk against using a website that they say lets users "illegally access" millions of scientific research papers. the city of london police's intellectual property crime unit says using the sci-hub website could "pose a threat" to students' personal data. the police are concerned that users of the "russia-based website" could have information taken and misused online. the sci-hub website says it "removes all barriers" to science. it offers open access to more than 85 million scientific papers and claims that copyright laws should be abolished and that such material should be "knowledge to all". it describes itself as "the first pirate website in the world to provide mass and public access to tens of millions of research papers". but max bruce, the city of london police's cyber protection officer, has urged universities to block the website on their networks because of the "threat posed by sci-hub to both the university and its students". "if you're tricked into revealing your log-in credentials, whether it's through the use of fake emails or  malware , we know that sci-hub will then use those details to compromise your university's computer network in order to steal research papers," he said. the city of london police, which is the national lead for fraud, has warned that students studying online at home might be vulnerable. "students should be aware that accessing such websites is illegal, as it hosts stolen intellectual property," said det insp kevin ives. he warned that visitors to the website, whose twitter account has been suspended, are "very vulnerable to having their credentials stolen". the police warning says scientific papers could have been obtained by a "variety of malicious means, such as the use of  phishing  emails to trick university staff and students into divulging their login credentials". but the sci-hub website has previously told the bbc that it provides students with access to research papers for which the subscriptions are "very expensive". andrew pitts, chief executive of the psi registry, which highlights "academic piracy", has warned that users "may inadvertently download potentially dangerous content from this illegal site and put the security of their organisations at risk". the national cyber security centre, part of the gchq intelligence service, has warned of the threat of cyber-attacks against universities. last autumn the cyber-agency warned of online attacks attempting to "derail" the start of the academic year in universities. scam attempts by fraudsters masquerading as the uk's tax authority surged as potential victims completed tax returns while staying at home. con-artists attempted to take advantage of the self-assessment filing deadline at the end of january to flood people with fake texts, emails and calls. they posed as hm revenue and customs (hmrc) officials and attempted to steal personal financial details. phone scam reports to hmrc tripled compared with december, it said. there were a total of 33,053 reports in january, in addition to 46,210  phishing  emails, and 26,643 suspicious text messages during the same month. the number of bogus text message reports was twice the next highest level seen during any month of the last year. most of these scam messages offered bogus tax rebates, fake support or grants, or threatened legal action over unpaid tax. a new scam involved criminals calling people saying that their national insurance number had been used fraudulently. this was a lie. an hmrc spokesman said: "if someone calls, emails or texts claiming to be from hmrc, saying that you can claim financial help, are due a tax refund or owe tax, or asks for bank or other personal details, it might be a scam.  "if you can't verify the identity of the caller, hmrc recommends that you do not speak to them." fee-paying schools were targeted in a cyber attack which accessed parents' email addresses, it has emerged. fraudulent emails sent from school accounts offered a 25% discount on fees for paying quickly via the bitcoin cryptocurrency. newcastle's royal grammar school warned parents of the "sophisticated attack". it has been approached for comment.  the information commissioner's office (ico) said other schools had been targeted and it was investigating. in an email to parents, the grammar school's headmaster, john fern, said it had reported the attack to police. because of the "potential breach of data" in the use of parent's email contacts, it is also liaising with the ico. this is required under the general data protection regulation.  the emails, which included spelling, grammatical and punctuation errors, were sent on 29 december from the address of the school's bursar, who is responsible for fees. the school told parents it was working with the company that provides its email systems, isams, to "establish exactly what happened". isams said it would be issuing a statement. mr fern told parents the school would "never ask for money or bank details in this way" and apologised. no financial details were accessed, he added.  the ico did not provide details of how many schools were affected but said: "[we are] aware of other  phishing  type attacks that have been targeted towards schools.  "royal grammar school has made us aware of an incident and we will assess the information provided." energy firm npower has closed down its app following an attack that exposed some customers' financial and personal information. contact details, birth dates, addresses and partial bank account numbers are among details believed stolen. the firm did not say how many accounts were affected by the breach, which was first reported by moneysavingexpert.com. but the affected accounts had been locked, npower told the bbc. "we identified suspicious cyber-activity affecting the npower mobile app, where someone has accessed customer accounts using login data stolen from another website. this is known as 'credential stuffing'," the firm said in a statement. "we've contacted all affected customers to make them aware of the issue, encouraging them to change their passwords and offering advice on how to prevent unauthorised access to their online account." it also advised customers to change passwords on other accounts if using the same one. it added that the mobile app had already been due to be shut down as part of wind-down plans following npower's acquisition by eon. the information commissioner's office confirmed that it had been informed about the hack. "npower has made us aware of an incident affecting their app and we are making enquiries," the ico told the bbc. it is not clear when the attack took place, but moneysavingexpert said it had seen an email sent to customers at the beginning of the month warning that their accounts had been locked. action fraud advised customers to keep an eye out for potential  phishing  emails and to monitor their bank accounts for suspicious activity. police have seized thousands of computers running one of the most dangerous hacking networks worldwide. the emotet network obtains access to victims' computers, via malicious email attachments, then sells it to criminals who install more dangerous  malware . police from the uk, eu, us and canada worked together to "disrupt" emotet. europol called it "one of most significant  malicious-bot s of the past decade" and one of the main "door openers" for computer systems worldwide. "once this unauthorised access was established, these were sold to other top-level criminal groups to deploy further illicit activities such data theft and extortion through  ransomware ," it said. dmitry smilyanets, from recorded future, said: "even if the creator and his support and operators are not arrested, they likely will not try to rebuild. "they have enough cash to retire in peace - or start a new criminal adventure. "a working  malicious-bot  is a very complicated and gentle system. "if more than a half of the infrastructure is not working, it's safe to say bye-bye." emotet was initially a banking  spyware , designed to spy on victims' computers and steal login details. victims would receive an apparently important word document marked for their attention.  when opened, it would ask them to "enable macros" - a seemingly innocent feature built into microsoft word that actually opened their computer up to attackers. lotem finkelstein, of check point software, said it had been tracking emotet for years. "the most successful and prevalent  malware  of 2020 by a long way", he said, it had, over the course of the year, sent  phishing  emails with more than 150,000 different subject lines and 100,000 file names for the attachments. "it constantly adjusted its  phishing  emails to victims' interests and global events - for example, the covid-19 pandemic or major shopping seasons such as black friday," mr finkelstein said. and although the europol announcement may seem "abstract", it would protect "the public from cyber-threats that have caused losses of millions, if not more, of dollars".  a computer hacker who sold the personal data of thousands of people on the dark web faces jail after admitting a string of offences.  police began investigating grant west, 26, after he conned details from just eat customers in 2015. the personal data of around 165,000 people was compromised. detectives later found he had 63,000 credit and debit card details - and seized more than £500,000 in bitcoins belonging to west. he admitted charges including conspiracy to commit fraud, computer misuse, and drug offences. west, from the isle of sheppey in kent, used " phishing " emails to extract customer data from various companies.  between july 2015 and december 2015 he targeted online food delivery firm just eat, using a scam in which customers received a bogus email offering a voucher in return for answering questions about the service.  the emails allowed west to harvest information - including customers' names, addresses and payment card details - in order to sell to other criminals. there is no suggestion that just eat's own computer systems were hacked or compromised.  detectives believe he targeted customers of just about every major online vendor, from "argos to uber", as part of his criminal enterprise, using millions of email addresses to indiscriminately trick people into revealing their financial information. once he had a complete set of customer details he would sell them on via the now-defunct online dark web market alpha bay, with the user name "courvoisier". the details were sold as "fullz" - a slang term on the dark web used to describe a full set of customer details that would allow others to defraud individual bank accounts and credit cards.  the courvoisier account sold details belonging to 9,627 people - many of whom lost significant amounts to other online fraudsters. police say west made more than £180,000 from the scam. the proceeds from his business were converted into bitcoins and stored in multiple accounts.  the just eat  phishing  scam cost the firm more than £200,000 - but also gave specialist detectives from london's metropolitan police their first lead. west used his girlfriend's laptop and police traced the computer via a series of ip addresses, despite his best efforts to cover his digital tracks. as detectives moved in on west they realised that getting their hands on the laptop with his "fingers on the keyboard" was crucial.  a team of covert officers tracked west and while he was using the computer in the first class carriage on a train from rhyl to london officers pounced on him, seizing the unlocked computer.  the arrest was captured on the train's cctv. on the laptop they found the financial information of more than 100,000 people.      officers also raided west's home address and found an sd card with the details of 63,000 debit and credit cards, seven million email addresses with passwords, and the details of more than 500 companies - all the components required to commit mass online fraud. they also seized £25,000 in cash and half a kilogram of cannabis.  as well as financial information, west also sold cannabis online - which he shipped to customers - and "how to" guides for fellow hackers.  police say west treated his fraudulent activity as a "day job", sometimes spending 18 hours a day hacking financial information and doing online deals.  at first sight his lifestyle was simple - the family home was a caravan in a residential park - but west funded luxury holidays and goods with stolen credit card details.  his former girlfriend, rachael brookes, 26, from north wales, also enjoyed the cash generated by the frauds. at one point using stolen details to buy a new bikini.  she was sentenced on wednesday to a community order after pleading guilty to unauthorised access of computer material. his honour judge michael gledhill qc told ms brookes that she was "very fortunate indeed" not to be jailed and said of her relationship with west that she had "fallen into the arms of a villain and a rogue". west has no formal qualifications and, although he directed the frauds, investigators believe he was working with others. bitcoin "wallets" belonging to west were emptied the day after he was arrested. at current prices those bitcoins are estimated to be worth £1.5m.  detective chief superintendent michael gallagher - who led the investigation - said police were "uncovering the darkness and shady areas" where criminals operate on the dark web, and were "bringing them into the light".   "there was a myth that bitcoin in particular, and crypto-currencies more generally, was anonymous and it was also a myth that people can operate with impunity on the dark web and remain anonymous," he said. a spokesperson for just eat said "we were made aware of a  phishing  scam which took place in 2015 and at the time took steps to mitigate this… at no point were just eat systems compromised or breached. "protecting our brand and our customers from online fraud is of utmost importance to us."  west will be sentenced on 25 may. correction 19 september 2018: this article has been amended to remove any suggestion that just eat's own computer systems were hacked or compromised. a computer hacker found with the personal data of about 165,000 people and described as a "one man cyber crime wave" has been jailed. grant west, 26, from sheerness in kent, sent " phishing " emails pretending to be from just eat and extracted the details of 63,000 credit and debit cards. he admitted charges including conspiracy to commit fraud, computer misuse, and drug offences on 2 may.  judge michael gledhill jailed west for 10 years and eight months. west carried out cyber attacks on high street names including sainsbury's, asda, uber, argos and bookmakers ladbrokes and coral to obtain email addresses. between july 2015 and december 2015 he sent customers scam emails masquerading as takeaway service just east, offering a voucher in return for answering questions. once he had a complete set of customer details he would sell them on via the now-defunct online dark web market alpha bay. the prosecution said a total of £84,000 was taken fraudulently from accounts held at barclays, costing the bank more than £300,000 to remedy. british airways also suffered a £400,000 loss after avios accounts were hacked.  the judge described west as "a one man cyber crime wave" and said £1.6m worth of cryptocurrency, which he made selling people's information on the dark web, is unaccounted for. he said: "when such inadequate security is confronted with a criminal of your skills and ambition it is totally unfit for purpose and worthless. "this case should be a wake-up call to customers, companies and the computer industry to the very real threat of cyber crime."  the met police said west made more than £180,000 from the scam with the proceeds being converted into bitcoins and stored in multiple accounts.  the just eat  phishing  scam cost the firm more than £200,000, but there was no suggestion its own computer systems had been hacked or compromised, the court heard. west used his girlfriend's laptop on which police found the financial information of more than 100,000 people.      when officers raided west's home address they found an sd card with the details of 63,000 debit and credit cards. it also contained seven million email addresses with passwords, and the details of more than 500 companies. police also seized £25,000 in cash, more than £500,000 in bitcoins and half a kilogram of cannabis. west's former girlfriend, rachael brookes, 26, from north wales, was given a community order after pleading guilty to unauthorised access of computer material. a woman who received a fake email offering her a coronavirus vaccination has criticised "horrible" fraudsters for preying on the vulnerable. kelly davies, from emsworth, hampshire, said the email asking for her personal information looked genuine. according to investigators action fraud, there has been a huge increase in  phishing  scams in the last week. the nhs said the vaccine was free of charge and it would never ask a patient for their bank account details. the email, which has been reported more than 1,000 times in 24 hours, asks the recipient to click on a link if they want to receive the vaccine.  they are then asked to input their bank card details. ms davies, 42, said she was "sceptical" about the email as she knew people at higher risk than herself would be contacted first. she added: "it looked very much legitimate, with the nhs logos, and the government site logos, as you'd expect.  "it's quite worrying and there'll be people sat at home that are waiting and who need that vaccination.  "for people to prey on those individuals is awful. it's a horrible thing and people just shouldn't be doing that." pauline smith, head of action fraud, said: "it's despicable that fraudsters will take advantage of such an important tool in the fight against this evil and deadly disease.  "not only are the people being targeted with this email at risk of losing money, or having their identity stolen, but they are also at risk of not receiving the real vaccine." she said the public needed to "remain cautious and alert". ask for bank account or card detailsask for a pin or banking passwordarrive unannounced at homes to administer the vaccineask for copies of personal documents such as passports, driving licences, bills or payslips source: nhs dr nikki kanani, gp and nhs medical director for primary care, said the excitement around the vaccine had brought out the "cheats, crooks and con-people looking to make money from this life-saving programme". "the vaccine will always be free on the nhs," she added. an nhs spokeswoman said patients were normally contacted by post, via the national booking system, regarding vaccine appointments.  they may also be contacted by the local gp practice by telephone or text message, she added.  det sgt marcus mills, based at the economic crime unit at hampshire constabulary, said: "sadly, despite being in a worldwide pandemic, criminals continue to seek and exploit vulnerable people with  phishing  email scams." he said residents should not click on any links within an email "unless it is from a trusted source - regardless of how genuine the email may look".  "fraudsters are able to use sophisticated techniques and email address masking to make the email appear genuine," he explained. "to protect yourself, you always click on the senders details of the email and this will allow recipients to see the full email address of the sender.  "you can then make a decision as to whether you believe this to be a genuine email address or not." a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exerciselook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreakstress: how to look after your mental health customer and staff data has been "compromised" in a security breach of a social housing provider's it system.   flagship group, based in norwich, said the cyber attack on 1 november took "most of our group's systems offline".  it said the incident had been caused by a suspected  phishing  or  ransomware  attack. it said it had closed down its online systems while it was investigated, and had reported the breach to police and the information commissioner's office. on its website it said: "despite our quick action, there has been some data  encryption  and some personal customer and staff data has been compromised. "we do not yet have a complete picture of all the data that has been  encryption ." the company also said it had "a high level of security measures" in place to protect data. flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. chief executive david mcquade apologised to tenants affected by the breach and those experiencing delays in having repairs carried out. "we are now working towards the recovery of all our systems," he said. "the incident has caused considerable disruption to our staff and customer services and we are concentrating on emergency situations, to ensure our customers are safe." the firm said the matter had also been reported to the regulator of social housing. norfolk police said it was being dealt with by the national cyber security centre. the information commissioner's office (ico) confirmed it had been informed. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk police have warned the public to be vigilant after a 74-year-old dundee woman lost £140,000 in a telephone " phishing " fraud. tayside residents have been targeted by callers pretending to be from their banks or other business companies. victims are encouraged to either transfer money to another account or provide personal banking details. a 75-year-old montrose man was also persuaded to transfer £74,000 into other accounts. police said his bank managed to retrieve the money. the dundee pensioner was called by criminals who claimed to be from her bank's fraud department. police said the bank is currently attempting retrieve the six-figure sum. in a third case, a pensioner from kinross lost £5,000 after being called by a person claiming to work for bt, who said her computer had been hacked and persuaded her to hand over her bank details. a police scotland spokesman said: "police would advise residents to be alert to any phone call they receive from a person claiming to be from a bank, financial institution, business company either asking for money to be transferred or asking for a phone call to be made to the bank.  "do not provide any of your details. "if you do decide to call the bank, where possible call from a different phone line or mobile number.  "if in doubt, ask the caller to put a stop on your account and attend your branch in person." a canadian university says staffers unwittingly lost $9.5m (c$11.8m; £7.5m) in an online  phishing  scam. fraudulent emails convinced staff at macewan university that one of its clients was changing its bank account details. staff then paid money into the fraudulently created account. the university, in edmonton, alberta, is auditing its business practices. police have traced most of the funds to accounts in hong kong and montreal, but no charges have been laid. the scam came to light when the real client complained of non-payment. "there is never a good time for something like this to happen," university spokesperson david beharry said in a statement. "as our students come back to start the new academic year, we want to assure them and the community that our it systems were not compromised during this incident." what is  phishing ?  phishing  is a common type of internet fraud where scammers send emails that appear to be from a reputable company, enticing people to give up personal information. mr beharry also said the university was working to ensure that this fraud would not impact future educational or business operations. an internal review is expected to make recommendations on ways the school can prevent this from happening again. a preliminary audit found that protocols around changing banking information were "inadequate" and staff missed a number of opportunities to identify the fraud. cyber-thieves grab almost 250,000 valid log-in names and passwords for google accounts every week, suggests research. the study by google and uc berkeley looked at the ways email and other accounts get hijacked.  it used 12 months of log-in and account data found on websites and criminal forums or which had been harvested by hacking tools. google said the research helped secure accounts by showing how people fell victim to scammers and hackers. during the 12 months studying the underground markets, the researchers identified more than 788,000 credentials stolen via keyloggers, 12 million grabbed via  phishing  and 1.9 billion from breaches at other companies.  phishing  involves attempts to trick people into handing over personal information and keyloggers are programs that record every key someone presses when using a computer. the most useful information for cyber-thieves came from keyloggers and  phishing  attacks as these included valid passwords in 12%-25% of attacks, it found.  phishing  attacks posed the biggest risk to users as these helped malicious hackers scoop up about 234,000 valid names and passwords every week. by contrast, keyloggers only yielded about 15,000 valid credentials each week. cyber-attackers also sought to grab other information that could be useful in attacks, said the researchers.  data about a person's internet address (ip) as well as the device they were using and their physical location were all potentially useful for attackers seeking to defeat security checks. 123456password123456789abc123password1111111qwerty123456781234567 gathering this data was much harder, found the research, with only 3.8% of people who had credentials leaked also giving away ip addresses and fewer than 0.001% surrendering detailed device information. in a blog, google said it would use the results of the research to refine the ways it spotted and blocked attempts to take over accounts. in particular it would enhance efforts to use historical data about where users logged in and the devices they used to thwart impersonation attacks. the company has a range of resources for people affected or looking to protect themselves. however, the researchers acknowledged that the "multi-pronged problem" of account hijacking required efforts in lots of different areas. it noted that only 3.1% of people who had an account hijacked subsequently started using improved security measures, such as two-factor authentication, after they regained control of a lost account. because of this, they said, educating users about better ways to protect accounts should become a "major initiative". the company people's energy has contacted all its 270,000 current customers, following a data breach. co-founder karin sode told bbc news an entire database had been stolen by hackers and included information on previous customers. data stolen included names, addresses, dates of birth, phone numbers, tariff and energy meter ids, she said. but with the exception of that of 15 small-business customers, no financial information had been accessed. those businesses' bank accounts and sort codes had been accessed, ms sode said. and they had been contacted separately by phone. most of those affected are unlikely to face any direct financial risk. but having their data stolen may leave them more vulnerable to  phishing  attacks - where a criminal pretends to be from an official source to try to obtain other information, often using what they already have to sound credible. the breach was discovered on wednesday morning. and people's energy has contacted the information commissioner's office, the national centre for cyber-security, the energy regulator ofgem and the police. based in edinburgh, the company also has customers in england and wales. ms sode said it was investigating the breach and had called in independent experts but so far had no information about the identity of the hackers. she and david pike founded people's energy, in august 2017, with a commitment to sustainable energy and returning 75% of all profits to customers. "this is a big blow in every way," ms sode said on thursday. "we want people to feel they can trust us. "this was not part of the plan." "we're upset and sorry." a helpline has been set up for customers. candidates in the general election have been asked to look through their emails for signs that they have been targeted by a  phishing  attack. the list of potential targets includes recent mps. the national cyber security centre (ncsc), which is part of gchq, disclosed the request in a document released early on 16 may.  the bbc understands that the number of victims is currently understood to be in single figures. candidates have been asked to look for suspicious emails received after jan 2017. the ncsc declined to say if any data had been taken. a report in the financial times said it was "likely" that the  phishing  campaign had been orchestrated by a state. in a document titled  phishing : guidance for political parties and their staff, the centre says it has "become aware of  phishing  attacks to gain access to the online accounts of individuals that were mps before dissolution of parliament" and "other staff who work in political parties". the ncsc said the attacks were likely to continue "and may be sent to parliamentary email addresses, prospective parliamentary candidates, and party staff". the bbc understands that so far victims' personal emails have been affected but no successful  phishing  attempts have been made via parliamentary email addresses. it is believed that the ncsc has contacted the electoral commission about the threat and that the commission will help to alert candidates. the centre said that potential victims should look out for "unexpected requests to reset your password for online or social media accounts (such as apple, google, microsoft, facebook or twitter)".  "or you might have been asked to approve changes to your account that you've not requested." the ncsc did not say whether it knew who was behind the  phishing  campaign.  the warnings to political parties come as cyber-security officials brace themselves for some kind of incident during the elections.  no-one can be sure that anything will take place, but the experience of the us and more recently france has led them to believe that some kind of theft and then dump of information is possible.  in both those cases, a russian hand is suspected. intelligence agencies have historically kept their distance from the communication of politicians due to the doctrine that says mps should not be monitored.  but parties and politicians themselves have been asking for advice and guidance in recent months amid growing concerns. concern about elections being targeted by hackers has been running high, following the attack on the democratic national committee during the us presidential election. us authorities attributed that incident to russia and said that a significant component of the attack involved  phishing .  more recently, the electoral campaign of president emmanuel macron in france was targeted by a similar campaign. the ncsc has said the uk has "systems in place to defend against electoral fraud at all levels and [we] have seen no successful cyber-intervention in uk democratic processes". the bbc understands that since last month, the ncsc has delivered cyber-security seminars to the uk's political parties, with the aim of helping them reduce the risk of succumbing to an attack. advice has also been offered to local authorities and the electoral commission. more than 746,000  phishing  emails pretending to be from the nhs were blocked in just one month in 2017, the national cyber security centre says. a report on the first year of the gchq unit's cyber-defence programme found that it removed 121,479  phishing  sites hosted in the uk. this reduced the uk's share of global  phishing  attacks from 5.3% to 3.1%. three-quarters of uk government-related  phishing  sites were taken down in 24 hours.  phishing  emails trick users into visiting websites that impersonate known brands and ask the user to log in to their account. this enables attackers to gather confidential login details or financial information.   phishing  emails are also used to trick people into opening malicious email attachments that install  malware  on their computers. the methods of reducing  phishing  involved using various security scanning systems to perform millions of tests on government websites and emails being sent in and out of government networks. "what they've done is not rocket science - the technology's been around for a while, but they've managed to persuade various government departments to do the simple things to reduce cyber-security threats dramatically," cyber-security expert prof alan woodward, from surrey university, told the bbc. " phishing  emails from hm revenue and customs (hmrc) used to be the most common emails you'd see, but they got the hmrc to put the technology in place, and the spoofing emails dropped to zero in a matter of days." cyber-security expert graham cluley said that technologies used were not new, but the ncsc's efforts had produced "impressive results". "of course they won't have caught every  phishing  attempt, but they will have helped stamp out many of the most convincing attacks," he told the bbc.  martyn thomas, gresham college's professor of it, agreed: "i think their success rate on stopping really legitimate-looking spam is really high and they are to be congratulated." while prof thomas felt that the ncsc would benefit from having a "longer-term vision" when it came to cybersecurity, he felt the fact that the government agency could gain intelligence from gchq on potential cyber-attacks gave it an edge over commercial cybersecurity contractors.  prof woodward said the ncsc's work was "an important development" because the organisation was able to close down the opportunity for people to pretend to be from within the nhs, which would help to prevent future attacks. "the biggest problem is people pretending to be within," he said. "whenever you receive something that seems to come from your own network, you inherently trust it." six weeks ago, a young woman called zed (not her real name) was in a meeting at work when a message popped up on facebook messenger from a distant friend. "hey babe," it began. the friend asked zed to vote for her in an online modelling competition, which she agreed to do.  but then - disaster. adding her email address to the competition register had caused a tech meltdown, her friend said. she needed to borrow her email log-in to fix it quickly and restore her votes.  zed was unsure. the friend begged - her career was at stake, she pleaded. still in the meeting and powerless to make a call, zed gave in - a momentary leap of faith. except it was not her friend that she was talking to - someone else had got into the account and was pretending to be her.  it's a scamming technique known as spear  phishing . " phishing  uses behavioural psychology to trick victims into trusting the attacker in order to obtain sensitive information," said paul bischoff of comparitech, who also talked to zed.  "spear  phishing  is less prevalent, but far more dangerous. spear  phishing  targets an individual or small group of people. the attacker can gather personal information about their target to build a more believable persona." besides never sharing the credentials for your online accounts, a good way to stay safe is to enable "two-step authentication". this means that users must enter another code besides their password, received for example by their mobile phone, to log in. this can usually be set up in the security settings for your account or during the sign-up process. two-step authentication is offered by gmail, hotmail, apple, amazon, yahoo, facebook and twitter among others. within minutes, zed watched in horror as she was locked out of one account after another, as well as her apple icloud where she stored all her data - including a photo of her passport, bank details, and some explicit pictures. the hacker took control of all her ids as they were all linked to the email address details she had supplied.  the scammer also activated an extra layer of security, called two-step authentication, meaning that they received all alerts about her accounts and could reset them. then a man called. the number had a pakistan area code.  "he started the call by saying he didn't want any drama, he didn't want me to cry, he wanted me to talk to him like a professional," she said. he sounded young, perhaps a college student, she thought. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning he accused her of leading an "immoral" life. he had seen her photographs, he knew she had smoked and had boyfriends and was sexually active.  he asked her what her parents would think and was furious when she said they already knew. "he claimed he had hacked thousands of women," zed says. "he said 10 or 12 he had felt bad about because he couldn't find anything about them that was 'wrong'." zed was not part of that group. "he said he was happy when he hacked my account. that i deserved everything." he told her he would post the explicit pictures on her facebook page - where she has more than 1,000 friends. "i offered him money. i asked if i could pay. he said, 'don't talk about money.' he sounded irritated," she said. instead, he wanted her to perform a sex act for him on camera.  zed refused. "either you do it for me or you do it for the whole world," he told her - and uploaded one of the photos to facebook.  zed had already warned her boyfriend and parents who assembled an army of friends waiting to report activity on her account. within 15 minutes it had been disabled by facebook - but she still received concerned messages from contacts. "a friend who is like a brother sent me a message - it wasn't him who had seen [the photo] but a friend of his," she said. "i feel like i mustn't think too much about how many people saw [the photos]." the last thing the scammer said to her was, "have a great life." "it seemed to me the only reason he was doing this was to morally police women and get them to do stuff for him," zed said. "he wanted a gallery of explicit photographs of women. that seemed to be his motive." zed does not consider herself to be digitally naive. she is a bright, articulate 20-something from india who works in the media industry on the us east coast. "i have been tech savvy and on the internet almost my entire life - but i've never really seen the power of what people can do until now," she says.  regaining control of her accounts has been a struggle. it took zed a month to get her apple id back after engineers created a bespoke questionnaire for her containing answers that were not stored in her account. gmail and facebook have also been restored, but she has lost snapchat and her hotmail address - her central account which she had used for more than 13 years.  "i feel for the poor woman - these scams are so easy to fall for," said cybersecurity expert prof alan woodward from surrey university. "i think what it shows is that security is a combination of people, process and technology.  you can be very 'savvy' in any one or two of these but scammers are superb at finding novel combinations that, frankly, we just wouldn't think of.  "i know it sounds so obvious but, regardless of who they are, you should not share your username and password.  give these scammers a small chink in the armour and they are sadly brilliant at getting in and running amok in your digital life." zed still uses icloud but does not store personal stuff on it anymore - and has activated two-step verification everywhere.   "i still see the value in the storage. but i will never ever give any information away again," she said. zed originally decided to share her story on community site reddit after trying to find others who may have been conned by the same man. "i was really shocked to discover that i found absolutely nothing," she said. "i was hoping that speaking up about it would remedy that problem and encourage others to share their stories. "it also felt like the only way to get back at him." as far as zed knows, the scammer has not been caught. "cyber-criminals come in all shapes and sizes,' said prof woodward.  "their motive is not always monetary gain. as we have sadly seen of late, revenge or just being plain malicious is a growing trend."  criminal organisations are offering subscription services to other fraudsters to teach them a scam in which they impersonate their victims. fraud prevention organisation cifas said fraudsters were sharing tips and getting more sophisticated in their attempts to steal money. cases of a particular scam targeting shoppers, which often spikes at christmas, have tripled this year. criminals harvest personal information then buy items in someone else's name. the so-called facility takeover fraud sees victims reveal personal or financial information to someone they believe is genuine, such as supposed bank staff.  criminals then use this information to access bank or credit card accounts to order items in the victim's name. online banking accounts can also be taken over as a result of  phishing ,  spyware  or  malware  scams on computers. cifas - a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies - said its intelligence team had seen evidence of criminals charging each other for information on the dark web. this is the part of the internet that is invisible to search engines. criminals have long shared so-called sucker lists, detailing people who they have previously tricked in a scam and could be potential victims again. there were 7,461 reports in the retail sector from january to september recorded by cifas, compared with 2,365 in the same period in 2019. there was also a big rise in cases of fraudsters using the same kind of scam to order mobile phones. cifas said techniques used by criminals were becoming more sophisticated as they were finding new ways to circumvent security measures put in place by companies.  beware christmas parcel delivery scams, banks warnbanks 'too often blaming customers' for fraud mike haley, chief executive of cifas, said: "we often notice a spike in this activity over the festive period, and so i would urge everyone to remain vigilant if contacted by anyone claiming to be from an organisation they trust, such as a bank, mobile phone company or even the police." last month, banking trade body uk finance warned criminals were using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through  phishing  emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud a  phishing  email that targeted gmail users is estimated to have cost the state of minnesota $90,000 (£69,400). about 2,500 state employees received the email, according to the state chief information security officer. around the world, people have reported getting multiple copies of the email, while others have received the message from trusted organisations. one million gmail users, which google says is "fewer than 0.1%", were affected. the cost to the minnesota state government was mainly the result of employees dealing with the attack rather than carrying out their normal jobs, said state chief information security officer christopher buse. "i estimated three minutes of time per employee… it may be much more than that in many cases," he told abc news. "it's important for people to understand not only that the attacks are happening but also to understand how costly they are." mr buse said that the cost could have been much higher but minnesota state government agencies generally did not use gmail or google docs. "most of these scams are done using office documents like word and excel spreadsheets", ken munro, of pen test partners, told the bbc. "but a lot of big companies have moved away from traditional office software packages, and an increasing number are moving towards using google." besides the minnesota state government, a large number of other gmail users were affected. jacquelyn piette, who is studying for an mba at boston college, tweeted that she had just received warning of the  phishing  scam when the message arrived in her inbox. users who received the email were told a contact of theirs had shared a document with them on google docs. if they clicked on the "open in docs" button, they were taken to a genuine google page that required them to log in with their account credentials. once logged in, a service called "google apps" would ask them for permission to access their email account data. by agreeing to share their data, users were potentially giving the hackers access to their email account, contacts and online documents. the  malware  used this access to send copies of the  phishing  email to everyone in the recipient's contacts list. "as companies get better at security, scammers will start looking for connections between personal email accounts and professional accounts, which might sidestep some of the company's security," mr munro said. he said that introducing "layers of separation" - such as not checking personal email on the office computer - could help prevent such  phishing  campaigns spreading. "companies could say they might not want you to check personal email on your work computer, but they don't mind you checking it on your mobile." google said it had stopped the attack "within approximately one hour" and fewer than 0.1% of its users had been affected - about one million people. those who did click on the link have been advised to log into their accounts and revoke access to google apps, then change their password. google says it has stopped a  phishing  email that reached about a million of its users. the scam claimed to come from google docs - a service that allows people to share and edit documents online. users who clicked a link and followed instructions, risked giving the hackers access to their email accounts. google said it had stopped the attack "within approximately one hour", including through "removing fake pages and applications". "while contact information was accessed and used by the campaign, our investigations show that no other data was exposed," google said in an updated statement. "there's no further action users need to take regarding this event; users who want to review third party apps connected to their account can visit google security checkup."  microsoft attacks google's windows hack alert'one billion' affected by yahoo hack during the attack, users were sent a deceptive invitation to edit a google doc, with a subject line stating a contact "has shared a document on google docs with you".  the email address hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh@mailinator[.]com was also copied in to the message; mailinator, a free email service provider has denied any involvement.   if users clicked on the "open in docs" button in the email, they were then taken to a real google-hosted page and asked to allow a seemingly real service, called "google docs", to access their email account data. by granting permission, users unwittingly allowed hackers to potentially access to their email account, contacts and online documents.  the  malware  then e-mailed everyone in the victim's contacts list in order to spread itself. "this is a very serious situation for anybody who is infected because the victims have their accounts controlled by a malicious party," justin cappos, a cyber security professor at nyu, told reuters. according to pc world magazine, the scam was more sophisticated than typical  phishing  attacks, whereby people trick people into handing over their personal information by posing as a reputable company.  this is because the hackers bypassed the need to steal people's login credentials and instead built a third-party app that used google processes to gain account access. the russian hacking group fancy bear has been accused of using similar attack methods, but one security expert doubted their involvement.  "i don't believe they are behind this... because this is way too widespread," jaime blasco, chief scientist at security provider alienvault, told pc world.  google said the spam campaign affected "fewer than 0.1%" of gmail users. that works out to about one million people affected. last year, an american man pleaded guilty to stealing celebrities' nude pictures by using a  phishing  scam to hack their icloud and gmail accounts. and in 2013, google said it had detected thousands of  phishing  attacks targeting email accounts of iranian users ahead of the country's presidential election. subway customers in the uk are receiving scam emails as part of a  phishing  attack. users took to social media to complain about the emails, which claim to be an order confirmation from the fast-food chain and contain links to  malware . the emails also use the victims' names, and appear to come from the chain's subcard loyalty scheme. subway has not said whether its databases have been compromised or what the source of the scam is. but the firm has acknowledged that there is a problem. a spokesperson for the company said: "we are aware of some disruption to our email systems and understand some of our guests have received an unauthorised email." it apologised for any inconvenience and advised people to delete the email. the problem was earlier reported by computer security news site bleeping computer, which said it had found a form of  malware  called trickbot in the malicious links the email encourages users to click. trickbot is designed to steal personal information from infected computers, and can also install other computer-virus es and  ransomware . the email links to fake documents that supposedly need to be confirmed - including insurance documents for the sandwich, suggesting that the attack had been repurposed from an existing scam. bleeping computer reports that these documents include an excel spreadsheet download, which asks users to enable additional features that install the computer-virus . it is not clear how the attacker accessed the details of customers. online, some recipients claimed that the attack email appeared to come from the address that the company usually uses. update 12 december: subway has issued a fresh statement: "having investigated the matter, we have no evidence that guest accounts have been hacked. however, the system which manages our email campaigns has been compromised, leading to a  phishing  campaign that involved first name and email. the system does not hold any bank or credit card details. crisis protocol was initiated and compromised systems locked down. the safety of our guests and their personal data is our overriding priority and we apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused." the international vaccine supply chain has been targeted by cyber-espionage, according to ibm. the company says it tracked a campaign aimed at the delivery "cold chain" used to keep vaccines at the right temperature during transportation. the attackers' identity is unclear - but ibm said the sophistication of their methods indicated a nation state. it follows warnings from governments - including the uk's - of countries targeting aspects of vaccine research. ibm says it believes the campaign started in september 2020.  it says  phishing  emails were sent out across six countries, which targeted organisations linked to the cold chain equipment optimisation platform (cceop) of gavi, the international vaccine alliance. gavi's partners include the world health organization, unicef, the world bank and the bill & melinda gates foundation. they help distribute vaccines around the world to some of the poorest regions. this sometimes requires a "cold chain".  for example, the pfizer-biontech vaccine - which was not the specific target of this campaign - will need to be kept at a temperature of about -70c as it is moved about. the attackers impersonated a business executive from a legitimate chinese company involved in cceop's supply cold chain to make it more likely the targets would engage with the email. they then sent  phishing  emails to organisations that provided transportation, which contained malicious code and asked for people's log in credentials.  that could have allowed them to understand the infrastructure that governments intended to use to distribute vaccines.  "advanced insight into the purchase and movement of a vaccine that can impact life and the global economy is likely a high-value and high-priority nation-state target," ibm says. ibm says the wider targeting included: the european commission's directorate general taxation and customs unioncompanies involved in manufacturing solar panels, which can be used to keep vaccines cold in places where reliable power is not availablea south korean software-development companya german website-development company, which supports clients associated with pharmaceutical manufacturers, container transport, biotechnology and manufacturers of electrical components for communications ibm says the campaign was uncovered by a security team it set up at the start of the pandemic to track down covid-19 cyber-threats.  "the precision targeting and nature of the specific targeted organisations potentially point to nation-state activity," the us company said.  "without a clear path to a [pay]out, cyber-criminals are unlikely to devote the time and resources required to execute such a calculated operation." ibm says it has notified those targeted as well as law-enforcement authorities. the us's cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency (cisa) has issued an alert encouraging organisations associated with the storage and transport of a vaccine to be on guard for the kind of attacks linked to ibm's report. in july, the uk warned russian intelligence had targeted uk vaccine research, including at oxford.  the us also warned of chinese hacking, while, more recently, microsoft said it had seen north korean and russian hackers targeting vaccine research.  officials suggested the activity so far had been about intelligence gathering rather than disruption of any research.  phishing  remains one of the most common ways that cybercriminals get hold of your personal details.the bbc's chris fox explains what it is and how you can protect yourself. electronic signature service provider docusign has admitted customer email addresses were accessed in a data breach. the addresses were then targeted in a series of  phishing  emails from "a malicious third party". the messages invited recipients to click on a link to a microsoft word document containing  malware . docusign said that no other information was accessed in the incident, and the e-signature service remained secure. "no names, physical addresses, passwords, social security numbers, credit card data or other information was accessed," the company said in a statement. "docusign's core e-signature service, envelopes and customer documents and data remain secure." the company has advised people to delete any suspicious messages immediately.  the breach came to light when the company noticed an increase in  phishing  emails sent to some of their account holders last week. according to a statement published on docusign's website, "a malicious third party gained temporary access to a separate, non-core system that allows us to communicate service-related announcements to users via email". million hit by google  phishing  scamgoogle and facebook duped in huge 'scam'what is  phishing ? the emails included the docusign branding and appeared to come from addresses ending "docus.com", a lookalike domain. the subject line referred to either a wire transfer or an accounting invoice, saying: "document ready for signature". a full copy of the email has been published on the techhelplist website, which reported that the  malware  contained in the attachment could be used to steal passwords and banking credentials. " phishing  is almost the default way of tricking people into giving away that information," keith martin, professor of information security at royal holloway, university of london, told the bbc. "where it's targeting a bank, for example, the senders are going to use headers and language that'll make customers believe it's their bank. "with a generic  phishing  trawl, the message will go out and the more people who click the better - it's literally like fishing, hoping to get some bites, chucking a message out there speculatively. "with most, you don't need a very high success rate to make money." new students are being alerted to a scam where fraudsters claim to offer a "educational grant" in a bid to con them into divulging bank details.  the personal finance site money saving expert says it is aware of students at major universities being targeted in a new wave of " phishing  emails".  at queen mary university london, one student was tricked out of £300.  university of glasgow said it was also aware of the scam and had advised students to ignore the email.  the mother of the qmul student said her daughter had received the scam email last week.  it looked as if it had come from the university's finance department, complete with the logo, and invited the young woman to claim a government bursary.  an online form asked her for personal and banking details and took her to a bank verification page, which was when she became suspicious.  but, mse says, the student found the fraudsters had already taken £300 from her bank account.  in a statement qmul said: "we were made aware late last week that a number of qmul students had received these  phishing  emails. "qmul proactively monitors its systems to prevent and detect breaches, and there is no evidence to suggest any system has been compromised in this instance. "a message was sent to all students warning them about the scam and providing them with advice on how they can protect themselves online, including details of our cybersecurity training courses." the university said it did not believe the scam had affected many students and said it was confident its own systems had not been breached.  the university of glasgow said it would never ask for banking information in this way.  in an email to all students, the university said it had become aware of a scam email headed: "educational grant information".  "this is an email message that appears as if it has come from the university of glasgow's finance department. it has not," the university said.  earlier this year, the police site action fraud warned of a similar " phishing " campaign at universities.  the student loans company said students were particularly vulnerable to " phishing " attempts around the main payment dates, in september, january and april.  " phishing  emails are sent in batches so there will be more in circulation," it said.  "we want to remind students to stay vigilant with the details they provide online," said paul mason, the slc director responsible for combating fraud.  he advised students receiving unsolicited emails to be alert to poor spelling and grammar and to demands for a rapid response. they are also advised not to reply and not to click on any links.  suspected attempts should be reported to  phishing @slc.co.uk or to action fraud.  cyber-thieves are sticking to email as their preferred way to trick victims into falling for scams, suggests a report.  the online crime groups were shunning mobiles and newer technologies in favour of  phishing  campaigns, said the report from verizon.  the annual analysis catalogues more than 100,000 security incidents that hit thousands of companies in 2015. almost 90% of the incidents involved attempts to steal cash, it said. the gangs were sticking to booby-trapped emails because they were proving increasingly effective, said marc spitler, lead author on the report. and, so far, there was little evidence novel technologies involving net-connected gadgets or smartphones were becoming a popular attack route. about 30% of  phishing  emails had been opened by people in targeted organisations in 2015, said the report, up from 23% in 2014.  and, of the scam emails opened, about 13% had been able to launch  malware  because staff had run the attachments they had carried. this meant, said mr spitler, it often took just minutes for criminals to compromise the network of a targeted company. "if an attack works, then it works very quickly," he said.  "the  phishing  email typically leads to the installation of  malware  or the compromise of a user's pc by some sort of malicious code that can establish control or persistence on a network," said mr spitler.  unfortunately, he added, although companies fell victim quickly, they could take far longer to notice they had been breached.  statistics gathered for the verizon report suggest 84% of the organisations questioned took weeks to spot that criminals had won access to internal systems. a new type of  phishing  email that includes the recipient's home address has been received by thousands of people, the bbc has learned. members of the bbc radio 4's you and yours team were among those who received the scam emails, claiming they owed hundreds of pounds to uk firms. the firms involved have been inundated with phone calls from worried members of the public. one security expert warned clicking on the link would install  malware . you and yours reporter shari vahl was one of the first on the team to receive an email. "the email has good spelling and grammar and my exact home address...when i say exact i mean, not the way my address is written by those autofill sections on web pages, but the way i write my address.    "my tummy did a bit of a somersault when i read that, because i wondered who on earth i could owe £800 to and what was about to land on my doormat." she quickly realised it was a scam and did not click on the link. "then, a couple of minutes later, you and yours producer jon douglas piped up as he'd received one and then another colleague said he'd received one too, but to his home email address," she added. the you and yours team decided to contact the companies that were listed in the emails as being owed money. a spokesman for british millerain co ltd, a waxed cotton fabric manufacturer, told the programme that the firm "had more than 150 calls from people who don't owe us money". and a spokeswoman for manchester shelving firm greenoaks said: "my colleague took a call from an elderly gentleman and he was very distressed because his wife had had one of these emails."   dr steven murdoch, principal research fellow at the department of computer science at university college london, told you and yours: "most likely it was a retailer or other internet site that had been hacked into and the database stolen, it then could have been sold or passed through several different people and then eventually it got to the person who sent out these emails."  he said that the email bore the hallmark of previous  phishing  attempts from gangs in eastern europe and russia. he said that clicking on the link would install  malware  such as  ransomware , which is a form of  ransomware  that will encryption files on windows-based computers and then demand a fee to unlock them. anyone receiving such an email is advised to delete it and report it to the national fraud and cybercrime reporting centre action fraud. thousands of football fans were sent a scam email asking them to pay a bill after a scottish football association database was apparently hacked. an invoice for £170 was sent to subscribers to the scotland supporters club mailing list just after 09:00. the email - addressed "dear customer" - provided a link for payment, which was a disguised website address. the sfa said a third-party email database had been compromised and urged recipients to delete the email. its statement said: "we would like to apologise to those who have received a spoof email this morning purporting to be from the scottish fa." it recommended that anyone who may have opened it run a security check on their computer to ensure no  malware  had been installed. it said: "we would like to assure all supporters that no bank or credit card details have been shared. "we have moved to delete this account and the issue has been raised with our suppliers. "we will provide an update in early course." fans on message boards suggested that clicking on the link within the scam email could infect computers with a computer-virus  and leave them out of pocket. the email contained links identical to those sent on official communications to supporters and were signed off as being from the "accounts department" of the scotland supporters club. the group - which gives members access to away tickets for scotland matches - currently has 29,231 members. it takes 82 seconds for cyber-thieves to ensnare the first victim of a  phishing  campaign, a report suggests. compiled by verizon, the report looks at analyses of almost 80,000 security incidents that hit thousands of companies in 2014. it found that, in many companies, about 25% of those who received a  phishing  email were likely to open it. "training your employees is a critical element of combating this threat," said bob rudis, lead author on the report. tricking people into opening a booby-trapped message let attackers grab login credentials that could be used to trespass on a network and steal data, the report said. "they do not have to use complex software exploits, because often they can get hold of legitimate credentials," mr rudis said. analysis of data breaches found that, in many cases, it had taken less than two minutes for freshly sent  phishing  emails to catch their first victim. and, said mr rudis, half of the victims had clicked on the message within the first hour of it being sent. although attackers racked up victims quickly, it took companies far longer to notice they had been compromised, mr rudis said. the report also found companies could take straight-forward steps to defend themselves against well-crafted  phishing  emails designed to make people open them and their attachments.  teaching staff to spot bogus messages could reduce the proportion of victims to sent emails from one in four to one in 20, he said.  showing workers the tell-tale signs of a  phishing  email could also turn them into another line of defence that could catch messages missed by automatic detection systems. "they should be treating employees as tools in the fight rather than as lambs to the slaughter," mr rudis said. after  phishing , some cyber-thieves relied on companies running un-patched software that was vulnerable to old and well-known exploits, he said.  more than 99% of the vulnerabilities exploited in data breaches had been known about for more than a year, mr rudis said. and some had been around for a decade. "there are some vulnerabilities that just linger out there," he said. a good patching regime would help companies protect themselves against most of the vulnerabilities cyber-thieves abuse, mr rudis added. find out how to avoid scam emails an initial internal investigation into a cyber attack on a housing firm found no evidence customer or staff data was stolen. flagship group, based in norwich, said the attack took "most of our group's systems offline". it said a suspected  phishing  or  ransomware  attack on 1 november caused "considerable disruption" to staff and customer services.  the firm said other independent investigations were ongoing. the attack was reported to the regulator of social housing, the national cyber security centre (ncsc) and the information commissioner's office (ico). the ncsc and the ico have not yet reported the findings of their investigations. in a statement, flagship said its it systems were now "in a stage of carefully controlled recovery".   the firm said it had also offered fraud and web monitoring services to its customers and staff "for added piece of mind".  flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m. it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk since march, hackers have had access to key parts of the us government - and only in the last week has their presence been uncovered.  on tech tent we assess the damage done by what may be the most successful act of cyber-espionage yet seen. listen to the latest tech tent podcast on bbc soundslisten live every friday at 15.00 gmt on the bbc world service it was last sunday when it emerged that a company called solarwinds had been hacked and its customers were being advised to disconnect from one of its key products, the orion platform, used to monitor networks. i'm sure many people yawned and thought this was just another hack but to cyber-security experts the name of the company targeted was a red flag. "the moment i heard solarwinds was involved, the alarm bells went off," rick holland, chief information security officer at digital shadows, tells tech tent. that was because customers of solarwinds network monitoring tools include many branches of the us government. "you have the highest tiers of both the military side of the government, as well as the civilian agencies in the government, as well." through the week it seemed each day brought news of another key agency whose defences had been breached since the attackers tampered with an update to the solarwinds orion platform.  the departments of treasury and commerce were named first, then homeland security, the national institute of health and even the los alamos nuclear weapons lab were said to have been compromised. at an early stage reuters news agency said three sources had told it russia was behind the attack - an allegation the russian foreign ministry described as baseless.  the us government has been cautious about attributing the attack to the russians, although the fbi has said it is investigating "in order to attribute, pursue, and disrupt the responsible threat actors". in the new york times on thursday president trump's former homeland security adviser, tom bossert, was clear about who he thinks is responsible. "the magnitude of this ongoing attack is hard to overstate," he wrote. "the russians have had access to a considerable number of important and sensitive networks for six to nine months."  but whoever did it, how did they manage to get through the defences of a company like solarwinds with what the company describes as a " very sophisticated supply-chain attack"?  rick holland has a theory: "we do know that solarwinds, in their filing to the security and exchange commission this week, alluded to microsoft, which makes me think that the initial access into the solarwinds environment was through a  phishing  email. so someone clicked on something they thought was benign -  turned out it was not benign." if it did all start with a  phishing  email, that won't sound too sophisticated to many people.  but in a blog post, calling for a global response to what he describes as a moment of reckoning, microsoft's president, brad smith, says his own company's investigations confirm that this was an attack "remarkable for its scope, sophistication and impact". while not attributing the attack to russia in so many words, he notes the country's involvement in previous hacks and calls this latest one "an act of recklessness that created a serious technological vulnerability for the united states and the world". much of the language used about this attack by both american government officials and private companies sounds like that used during periods of tension during the cold war. but so far, the man who leads the united states has been silent. president trump was swift in sacking us cyber-security chief chris krebs after he described the november election as the most secure in american history. but he has not said a word about what looks like the modern equivalent of an armed raid on the united states mainland by a foreign power.  a woman has told the  victoria derbyshire programme how she was conned out of her life savings by scammers who sent her a ' phishing ' email. 59-year-old vivian gabb, a pilates and tennis coach from london, was in the final stages of buying a house when the scammers struck.she was unaware that her email had been hacked and every email she wrote and received was being monitored by criminals.they sent her a message disguised as a follow-up email from her solicitor, asking for nearly £50,000 to be paid into their account.the internet safety advice website get safe online says more than half (51%) of people in the uk have been a victim of an online crime, and 15% of people have been victims of either attempted or successful hacks of their email account. watch  victoria derbyshire on weekdays from 09:15-11:00 bst on bbc two and bbc news channel. follow the programme on facebook and twitter, and find all our content online. british airways has issued a warning about a fake ' phishing ' email purporting to come from the airline. on monday, a county down man received an email from bc.custsrvcs@email.ba.com confirming an order for a flight from london on feb 26 with a price of £490. the man had not booked any such flight. while no money was taken from him, he was asked to click on links to confirm the flight. ba has warned the email is an attempt to get people's personal details. the airline said it had been contacted by a number of customers on monday who had received such an email. ba said other examples of fake emails included: ones with a subject line like "it's time to check-in online" inviting the recipient to click a link to check in for a fictitious upcoming flight.asking people to pay a bta tax ("basic travel allowance"), tfa ("travelling fees allowance"), or similar, to enable a friend to travel.contain unsolicited offers of employment with british airways requiring the recipient to purchase a visa.claiming to be from british airways world cargo, advising the person that a parcel is awaiting collection and requesting bank details or additional payments via western union.congratulating the recipient on winning a cash prize in a competition you have not entered.       offering tickets to sporting or music events claiming to come from a member of british airways cabin crew. the airline said the emails are not from british airways, but are attempts to secure personal information or extort money from consumers. "legitimate emails from british airways will contain your booking reference and the email will not have been sent from a web-based mail server such as gmail, hotmail, yahoo, etc," ba said.  "in addition, british airways will never request money payments through a third party or promise you any kind of cash prize." "if any customers have any doubts about emails they have received, british airways advises that they should not click on any links or download any files. "if you or anyone else receives these emails, please forward suspected email scams to:  phishing @email.ba.com and british airways will investigate its authenticity and take appropriate action." a department of enterprise, trade and investment spokeswoman said they were aware of the scam but had not received any complaints.  "legitimate businesses don't ask you to send sensitive information through insecure channels," she said.  "always look carefully at the email address the message has been sent from, as they will often closely resemble a genuine email address, with perhaps one or two letters spelled differently." kate russell's weekly review of the best apps and websites.anti-key-logging software like keyscrambler from qfx software can protect users from  phishing  emails and malicious websites that deploy key logging software to mine your personal details.storymaker is a blackberry 10 app which turn smartphone photo albums into beautiful animated slideshows with just a couple of taps.the button affair is a side-scrolling run, jump and roll adventure for pc or mac made in the style of rio de janeiro in the 1960s.thanks to a new iphone app, disney action, you can star in your own animated clip alongside mr incredible, sully from monster inc, or jack sparrow from pirates of the caribbean. google paid almost $1bn for crowdsourced mapping company waze in june. we are now beginning to see some results with key features being shared this week. redesigned and re-launched this week, owl is a site that helps uk citizens find and join their local neighbourhood watch group. watch more clips on the click website. if you are in the uk you can watch the whole programme on bbc iplayer. fraudsters are stepping up  phishing  campaigns that target people who use dating websites, suggests research. members of match.com, eharmony, zoosk, christian mingle and many others had received emails seeking to steal login details for the sites, said netcraft.  the net monitoring firm said the emails had been sent from other websites, hacked to hide the senders' identity. stolen data would be used to befriend other users in an attempt to trick them into handing over cash, it said. the  phishing  campaign against dating sites marked a departure for fraudsters, who typically preferred to target banks, said paul mutton, a security analyst at netcraft who investigated the attacks.  the attacks were "massive", he said, adding that in the past week netcraft had seen more than 100 compromised sites targeting match.com alone. so far, he said, it was not clear how sites were being compromised to host the scripts. websites and servers run by individuals, small businesses, construction firms and telecom suppliers had all become unwitting hosts of the  phishing  tools, he added. mr mutton said just one compromised site he had seen was home to about 800 short programs or scripts that targeted many different dating sites. each script looked like it had been generated by a "kit" bought online. "anyone with a very basic knowledge of programming could make use of the kit," he said.  the scripts are used to craft  phishing  emails that are spammed out to potential victims.  the mails seek to trick people into entering their login names for the dating sites.  if successful, the details are passed on to the legitimate login page of a dating website and are also sent to one of 300 email addresses used by the  phishing  gang.  fraudsters were keen to steal login details for accounts so they could avoid paying the charges dating sites levied before users could swap messages with other members, said mr mutton. using on-site messages the fraudsters hope to befriend others and then try to extract cash to help pay for a non-existent medical condition or to aid fictitious relatives.  significant amounts of cash could be stolen this way, said mr mutton, pointing to the case of karen and tracy vasseur, of colorado, who were jailed in 2013 for stealing more than $1m (£590,000) from 374 people using dating-site scams. a  phishing  email purporting to have been sent from a theatre ticket agency could have affected thousands of computer users, the firm said. the email states that the recipient has booked tickets to bournemouth pavilion's peter pan show at christmas, but includes a link which installs a computer-virus . bh live said there had been no data breach of its customers' details. head of communications matt good called it "a classic  phishing  exercise". he said the agency started to receive calls about the emails, which look identical to its usual email postings, early on monday morning. mr good said: "the emails were sent from known spam ip addresses." "a number of precautionary measures have been taken to ensure data, systems and networks continue to be protected," he added. anyone receiving the mails is advised not to open them and not to click on the enclosed link. they have also been urged to update online and computer passwords. bitcoin has soared to trade at an eye-watering $48,000 (£34,820), following the news that tesla has bought $1.5bn of the crypto-currency.  enthusiasts will tell you it's the future of money - but investing in the notoriously volatile virtual currency can be a rollercoaster, and it's not without risk. the hunt for new coins, using powerful computers, is also causing a surge in energy demand - which is not so good for the environment. here are some of your bitcoin adventures. james saye, tech consultant  i first invested in bitcoin in 2017 - i was nervous about putting too much in, so i went for around £500. i cashed it in for £2,500 during one of its peaks, and had a great holiday in iceland - the cash came in handy, iceland is lovely but expensive. i bought in again in 2018 when the price was lower so i'm still in but i don't regret cashing out when i did. heather delaney, founder of gallium ventures i've been the silent crypto-investor. i put in £5 at the very beginning and i've built it slowly and steadily over time. i see it as a long-term strategy, meaning the rapid highs and lows are not ones that cause me anxiety - although ask me as i near my retirement and we shall see what i think then! based on how much i have invested in bitcoin over time versus what i see today, i have a 585.41% increase in my investment.  i've never cashed it out - but i have converted some to other currencies as the market has fluctuated. i know loads of people who have done exciting things with their investments but for me it's part of my pension plan. i know i'm not typical.  david stubley, founder of 7 elements cyber-security firm we had a client whose bitcoin wallet was fraudulently accessed and all the money was transferred out of it. he had intended to use it as a deposit on a house. the man had been spooked by reports of fluctuations in the currency and decided to check his wallet. but he clicked on a fraudulent link, which led him to a  phishing  site, a complete clone of the real thing. he had 84 bitcoins, and the fraudsters transferred 83 of them. at the time, in 2017, they were worth $475,000. we tracked the payment on the blockchain [a kind of shared digital public ledger] - we could see it rolling across various wallets and finally it reached a wallet containing $15m of currency. while the final identity of the fraudsters could not be identified, we were able to have the wallets frozen, so at least denying access to the stolen funds. our client was irate but philosophical. today, that stolen bitcoin would be worth £2.8m. once it's gone, it really has gone. javed khan, independent trader  my bitcoin journey didn't start as an investment. at first, it was a form of transferring money, i didn't have to wait for confirmation from banks and so on - it was convenient. in 2018, i noticed i'd make a transfer, leave some bitcoin in my wallet and i'd see the prices go up - and before i knew it i was seeing profit, which surprised me. i had been telling my friends i was using it as a transfer tool, i hadn't thought about investing in it. in january 2020, i cashed in my bitcoin profits and bought a bentley in dubai, where i now live. i sent a video from the showroom to my mum and she cried, she was really proud. i would only put in money that i could afford to lose. the most i've lost is the transaction fees - when the price drops i don't lose faith.  i think the best time to buy bitcoin is when nobody's talking about it - wait for the hype to die down. rohan muscat, project manager and electrical engineer i became aware of bitcoin in 2010, but being a bit of a hardware geek, i wanted to mine it. in late 2016 i bought a pair of graphics cards to mine, and at first i did pretty well with it. a start-up i'd done some consulting for gave me some horizon state tokens (another form of crypto-currency) to pay part of my way, and in january 2017 those plus my mined assets were worth a$40,000 (£22,000). i decided to trade it a bit, and investigated malicious-bot  while moving to bigger scale mining.  at first it paid for itself, but then it went downhill and was borderline break-even. my electricity bill shot up to a$500-a$600 a month, because the mining rig needed so much power. i ended up selling the mining gear, and i'm currently sitting on about a$2,000 in crypto.  i could have made more if i'd jumped in and out, but the emotions and risks in trading have burnt me, and i'd rather not take the risk.  daniel crocker, business owner  in 2012, i was doing an apprenticeship at an it company. at lunchtime we used to chat about little ways of making money on the side. nobody had really heard of bitcoin but we decided to give it a go and we spent a few weeks on it.  it didn't last long, but luckily i kept hold of mine.  i traded them in last summer and got half the deposit for my house. i've still got a little bit but i'm just going to sit tight - it's not something i want to pin my future on.  i do know people who have gone in deep but i think i've been lucky enough already. scammers are sending 18 million hoax emails about covid-19 to gmail users every day, according to google. the tech giant says the pandemic has led to an explosion of  phishing  attacks in which criminals try to trick users into revealing personal data.   the company said it was blocking more than 100 million  phishing  emails a day. over the past week, almost a fifth were scam emails related to coronavirus. the computer-virus  may now be the biggest  phishing  topic ever, tech firms say. google's gmail is used by 1.5 billion people.  individuals are being sent a huge variety of emails which impersonate authorities, such as the world health organization (who), in an effort to persuade victims to download software or donate to bogus causes. cyber-criminals are also attempting to capitalise on government support packages by imitating public institutions. google claims that its machine-learning tools are able to block more than 99.9% of emails from reaching its users. the growth in coronavirus-themed  phishing  is being recorded by several cyber-security companies. barracuda networks said it had seen a 667% increase in malicious  phishing  emails during the pandemic. scammers have been sending fake emails and text messages claiming to be from the uk government, the who, the centre for disease control and prevention and even individual us officials, including president trump. " phishing  attacks always share the common trait of inciting or depending on an emotion that causes us to act more hastily or think less about our actions at that moment in time," said independent security researcher scott helme.  "the coronavirus pandemic is a highly emotional topic right now and cyber-criminals clearly know this. they're hoping that the typical person might be more inclined to click through links or follow bad instructions if they use this lure." researchers have also found malicious websites and smartphone applications based on genuine coronavirus resources.  one malicious android app claims to help track the spread of the computer-virus , but instead infects the phone with  ransomware  and demands payment to restore the device. last week, the national cyber security centre and the us department of homeland security issued a joint advisory. they said they had seen "an increasing number of malicious cyber-actors" that were "exploiting the current covid-19 pandemic for their own objectives". the ncsc has published advice on its website to help people avoid becoming the victim of a scam. a group of pupils at a middle school in alaska took control of their classroom computers after  phishing  for administrator privileges. they asked teachers at schoenbar middle school, for 12 to 13-year-olds, to enter admin names and passwords to accept a false software update, according to reports.  the pupils used those details to access and control classmates' pcs. classmates then complained that their computers were not responding normally. associated press said that at least 18 pupils were involved in the  phishing , which gave them control over 300 computers allocated for student use at the school in the alaskan town of ketchikan. those computers have now been seized. "i don't believe any hardware issues were compromised," casey robinson, the principal, told community radio station ketchikan fm.  he said: "no software issues were compromised. i don't think there was any personal information compromised. now that we have all the machines back in our control, nothing new can happen." mr robinson added there would be a review of the way that devices are maintained. "how we do business is definitely going to have to change when it comes to updating programs and resources that we have on the machines," mr robinson said. "yes, something new is going to have to happen." unprecedented changes in lifestyle in the coronavirus pandemic led to an acceleration in shifts in criminal behaviour in wales, a crime expert has said. levels of reported crime fell across wales from october 2019-2020, including in the first few months of the pandemic. but figures show reports of cyber crime, stalking and harassment spiked. professor martin innes said challenges were "unprecedented" in modern times. the cardiff university professor said while it was hard to predict the future, an increase in digital crime during the pandemic, teamed with the economic impact and increases in social tension mixed for a "worrying cocktail" for post-lockdown crime. covid lockdown rule breakers could 'make pandemic longer'policing covid in wales: 'coughed at and spat on' police forces across wales have repeatedly warned of being under immense pressure during the pandemic as they try to enforce covid laws while dealing with serious and violent crime. recent figures, released by the office of national statistics, show 245,591 crimes were reported to welsh police forces between october 2019 and september 2020, a 7% fall on the year before, although this does not include fraud figures. the number of fraud offences increased by 8% to 14,845 during the same period. while the number of burglaries (-18%), thefts (-22%) and shoplifting offences fell between september 2019-2020, stalking and harassment reports increased by 11% in wales, with 36,770 reports. domestic abuse charities also reported marked increases in calls for help when schools returned in september after abuse was not reported during lockdown. prof innes, director of the crime and security research institute at cardiff university, said crime had been shifting for years, but lockdown had seemed to accelerated rates of personal and digital crime, as people were stuck at home and spending more time online. dyfed-powys police saw the largest increase in reports of stalking and harassment offences, with 5,229 reports a 34% increase compared to the year before. in north wales police reported an increase in stalking and harassment crimes, as well as a rise in disability and transphobic hate crime. while the coronavirus pandemic has seen many acts of kindness, police have warned some criminals have used covid-19 to scam people out of their life savings. figures, published by action fraud, show victims of cyber crime and fraud in wales have reportedly lost £35.4m, with almost 13,000 crimes reported since the start of lockdown on 23 march. health officials and police have warned scammers claiming to work for the nhs are targeting vulnerable people online offering fake covid vaccines in return for cash or personal details. dyfed-powys police also reported a significant increase in romance fraud, with victims in west wales losing £1.3m between january and november last year, with officers saying criminals are targeting the lonely in lockdown. prof innes said the shift to cyber, such as online hate crime, drug dealing over apps, and smear campaigns, was a huge challenge for forces and they would need to invest in expertise and technology to be able to recover evidence. he said the impact of the pandemic on drug trade, and gang operations like county lines, was concerning, as criminal operations would have changed. "just like everybody else has changed their behaviour in the pandemic, those involved in drug behaviour have probably done the same... and probably some of those innovations they've made will stick." at a recent north wales police and crime panel chief constable carl foulkes said that officers were predicting an increase in "digital cyber criminality" and it would be a "complex and challenging" area for the future. south wales police and crime commissioner alun michael warned "increased levels of serious violence and domestic abuse were likely to continue" following the pandemic. in a report to the south wales police and crime panel, mr michael said: "the scale of the economic downturn and subsequent rate of recovery will fundamentally shape the post pandemic crime and disorder landscape in the medium to long term." he added: "people are spending more time online - increasing the risk of  phishing , grooming, cyber attacks and sextortion.  "payment preferences are also shifting to increasingly be online which again opens up opportunities for online fraud." meanwhile reports of public order offences also increased across all four forces by 8%, with dyfed-powys police recording an increase of 29% during the year to september 2020. in dyfed-powys and gwent police areas, documents show the forces said crime had increased after lockdown measures were first eased in summer 2020. in gwent reports of sexual offences increased by 29% (from 128 to 126), but remained significantly lower than normal with the force saying less people were reporting the crime, while bike thefts increased by 25%, due to "cycling being encouraged...during lockdown". in the dyfed-powys area drug offences increased during the first lockdown in march, before decreasing significantly later in 2020. the force warned that public tensions remained high due to covid restrictions, and this had led to the number of reports of public order offences remaining high. there had been "exponential" increases in anti-social behaviour reports due to breaches of lockdown rules, it said. in july and august, when restrictions began to ease, there was a sharp rise in violent attacks, but the force said this was down to an "increase in alcohol related" incidents. in north wales, by the start of december, officers had issued 582 fines for covid-19 restriction breaches, with two £10k fines issued for illegal music events. prof innes said when lockdown measures were eased again, anti-social behaviour and low level public disorder could spike in communities, and with people struggling due to losing their jobs, crime levels would return to pre-pandemic levels. "people have been cooped up and there won't be an awful lot of things for people to do as the weather gets nicer," he said. "we can already see some of the social tensions kind of bubbling away when you look across europe. "longer term we are going to see a lot of empty shops and town centres are going to be very different than they have been... what we know is when you've got empty stores they act as a magnet for trouble." 'we are family: the generation game': why are more young people deciding to live with their parents?check out the latest series of foiled: bleach for the stars is thriving under new management six people have been arrested in connection with a £1m  phishing  operation that took money from the bank accounts of hundreds of uk students. students on government loan schemes were targeted and tricked into revealing their bank account details, police said. some £1,000 to £5,000 was taken at a time, scotland yard said. victims received emails inviting them to update details on their student account via a link to a bogus website. the metropolitan police's e-crime unit was first alerted in august 2011 and worked with the student loans company, the banking industry and internet service providers during their investigation. officers have now seized computers and other equipment from addresses in london, manchester and bolton. a 26-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman have been arrested in manchester, while a 25-year-old man was arrested in deptford, south london. a 49-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man were also arrested in stratford, north-east london, and a 38-year-old man was arrested in bolton, lancashire.  phishing  is when a legitimate-looking email is sent in an attempt to gather personal and financial information from recipients. cyber-criminals have invented a cunning new method of targeting victims by developing a system that behaves like a bouncer at an exclusive nightclub. security firm rsa revealed how attackers assigned targets with a unique id, meaning the scam could be aimed at specific people. if a person's id was not on the list, their computer would not be affected. rsa said the advanced threat posed a new "detection challenge" to the security industry. in a blog post, rsa cybercrime specialist limor kessem wrote: "as we adapt and improve our detection systems, we are reminded that in the never-ending cat-and-mouse game, only the nimble will survive." the so-called bouncer  phishing  kit targets preset lists of email addresses. for each target, a unique id is automatically generated, creating a unique web address for the user to click on. if someone has an id that does not match the list of intended targets, they will simply be presented with a 404 error page, and will be unharmed. if, however, a person is one of the unfortunate ones, the same page will instead spring into life as an "attack page" ready to steal user credentials. using this method means attackers can harvest data from certain groups of users, rather than having to sift through large amounts of data. for example, the bouncer  phishing  kit could be used to gather personal details on people in one particular country. "it holds this [bouncer] moniker because much like many high-profile night-time hotspots - if your name is not on the list, you're staying out," mr kessem said. "traditional phishers like to cast as wide of a net as possible. "but with this tactic the phisher is laser-focusing the campaign in an effort to collect only the most pertinent credentials for his purposes. "keeping out uninvited guests also means avoiding security companies and prompt take-downs of such attacks."  phishing  is a growing problem for internet users. according to rsa's data, attacks of this type were up 59% in 2012 compared with the previous year, and cost the global economy $1.5bn (£940m). fraudsters are exploiting christmas bargain-hunters who have switched to online shopping owing to coronavirus restrictions. people looking for games consoles, bicycles and clothing may be at a higher risk of encountering a scam, according to banking industry research. uk finance, which represents the finance industry, warned of scams when items were never delivered. the average loss in such cases was £720 in the first half of the year. the trade body said social media platforms, online marketplaces and auction websites were increasingly being used by criminals to carry out these purchase scams, where a customer pays in advance for goods or services that do not exist and are never received. these payments are taken off the integrated payment platform and are made through a bank transfer instead, and mean people are unlikely to be refunded. more than £27m was lost to such fraud in the first half of the year, according to uk finance figures. it also warned that purchase scams may also involve home improvement and diy purchases such as patio heaters and sheds, as fraudsters adapted to more people staying at home. fraud: 'i got the shakes every time i went online'fraudsters 'caught me in a spider's web' katy worobec, managing director of economic crime at uk finance, said: "as consumer spending has shifted online, criminals have ruthlessly adjusted their approaches to pursue those shopping on the internet.  "with black friday and christmas approaching, fraudsters are again stepping up their efforts to take advantage of consumers searching for bargains." uk finance data shows that 25 to 34-year-olds are most likely to shop online regularly. ms worobec said criminals were also using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through  phishing  emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the first uk-wide lockdown led to reports of rising numbers of scam and fraud attempts. figures from barclays suggested fraud attempts in general were up 66% in the first half of the year compared with the previous six months. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud singles day, the world's biggest online shopping event, has kicked off with consumers estimated to spend billions of dollars - much of which is being eyed by scammers. this year's event is expected to continue to break records across asia, as more people stay home and shop online amid the covid-19 pandemic, while those unable to travel overseas for shopping trips are expected to "revenge spend" online.  it represents a huge honeypot for scammers who, over the years, have come up with increasingly innovative ways to trick consumers, from creating fake apps to claims of formaldehyde-soaked clothes. some shoppers in china have lost tens of thousands of dollars to such ruses. authorities from several provinces including anhui, jiangsu and sichuan have issued warnings on social media platform weibo about a "fake refund" phone scam. how it works: a person impersonating a customer service officer from an e-commerce site phones the victim to inform him that a recent purchase is either out of stock or damaged, and that as compensation they will give him a refund that is more than the amount that he paid. he then asks the victim for bank account details so that he can "process the refund".  singles day: 3m people, 4,000 planes and shipschina continues to bounce back from computer-virus  slump police say they have already seen many such instances in the past few weeks during pre-singles day sales. a woman in yunnan province recently lost a total of 200,000 yuan ($30,000; £22,900) recently after she was tricked into believing that she would be getting a refund on 200 yuan worth of clothes that she bought on e-commerce platform taobao.  she had transferred money to scammers multiple times after being told that there were problems with their system, and that she had to pay to unfreeze her account.  the "fake refund" scam has seen various iterations over the years. in 2018, scammers reportedly posed as customer service officers offering refunds on clothes said to be ruined by excessive formaldehyde. one woman in wuxi city lost 44,000 yuan ($7,000) this way, after she scanned a qr code sent by a scammer which asked for her bank details.  last year, the formaldehyde scam was tweaked to trick mothers into believing that the chemical had tainted their orders of baby diapers.  other scams involve counterfeit shopping apps, which are made to look and function like those by retailers such as taobao and jd.com. as they look so similar to the real deal, victims are tricked into giving away personal information such as mobile numbers and bank account details.  according to a 2018 report by chinese online security firm 360 security brain, close to 4,000 fake shopping apps were downloaded on more than 300,000 mobile devices in china in november that year.  there have also been reports of fraud related to cash-on-delivery packages, where confused family members are asked to pay cash upfront when signing for delivered packages to their door.  singles day is the world's biggest online shopping event in terms of spending, with much of the revenue generated by chinese online retail giant alibaba.  last year, their gross merchandise value on singles day reached more than 210bn yuan (£23bn, us$31bn), which is double that of black friday and cyber monday combined. this year, alibaba is claiming to have hit 372bn yuan of sales within the first 30 minutes of the event including pre-singles day orders. originally created by the company as a chinese shopping festival, it's now expanded across the region with other online retailers in countries such as singapore, thailand and the philippines all holding their own versions. also known as double 11 as it is held annually on 11 nov,  the shopping festival offers buyers huge discounts on everything from household items and fashion accessories, to cars and even houses. the huge number of transactions during this period presents scammers with ample opportunities, and e-commerce fraudulent activities saw "significant growth" during the sales period across asian countries last year, according to data by cybersecurity firm kaspersky.  mr yeo siang tiong, general manager for south east asia, said victims often fall prey to scams on singles day because they get "caught up in the excitement" while trying to get the best deals. "in addition, many of the  phishing  scams in particular have become quite convincing, making it hard for consumers to differentiate between truth and fiction," he said.  never give away critical personal information such as bank account details over the phone. e-commerce platforms such as taobao would typically have a customer's bank information already saved in their system, so refunds should be able to be processed automatically.  fake refund scams also often offer you more than what you paid for, which would rarely happen in a real situation. if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.  as for internet  phishing  scams, double check web addresses if you are redirected to them from other landing pages, said kaspersky's mr yeo, or try to access deal pages directly through the legitimate website. google says it has detected and stopped thousands of  phishing  attacks targeting email accounts of iranian users ahead of the 14 june presidential election. in an online statement, the firm said it had noticed a "significant jump" in the region's overall volume of  phishing  activity in the last three weeks. the timing and targets suggested the attacks were "politically motivated". friday's poll is the first since 2009 when president mahmoud ahmadinejad won a controversial second term. the election had triggered angry protests, with voters accusing mr ahmadinejad's camp of rigging the results in his favour. google's vice-president of security engineering, eric grosse, said the  phishing  attacks originated from within iran.  phishing  attempts to obtain passwords and other private computing information by directing users to fake websites. "for almost three weeks, we have detected and disrupted multiple email-based  phishing  campaigns aimed at compromising the accounts owned by tens of thousands of iranian users," he said. "the timing and targeting of the campaigns suggest that the attacks are politically motivated in connection with the iranian presidential election on friday." mr grosse said victims targeted in the attacks had received an email containing a link to a web page purporting to perform account maintenance. if they clicked the link, they were taken to a fake google sign-in page, which would steal their username and password. the threat was detected by a  phishing  detection feature added to the firm's chrome web browser in 2012. mr grosse warned iranian users to take extra measures to protect their accounts from "state-sponsored attacks". in the latest case, users received a message which appeared to come from google itself using the official-looking address: email.settings@gmail.com. it suggested they assign an extra email address to their existing google account to make password recovery easier. the bogus link they were asked to click also contained the search firm's name adding to the appearance of authenticity, google says. however, the attempt was spotted by a safe browsing feature added to google's chrome browser last year. most of the six candidates in friday's election are conservatives close to ayatollah khamenei. the opposition says more than 80 of its supporters were killed in a crackdown over a period of six months after the 2009 election - a figure the government disputes. several have been sentenced to death, and dozens jailed. the two reformist candidates from 2009 - mir hossein mousavi and mehdi karroubi - remain under house arrest. peter says that the cyber-attacks on his company are relentless. "we see tens of different hacking attacks every single week. it is never ending." a senior computer network manager for a global financial services company, peter (who did not want to give his surname, or the name of his employer, due to his firm's anxieties surrounding cyber-security), says they are bombarded from all directions. "we see everything," he says. "staff get emails sent to them pretending to be from the service desk, asking them to reset their log-in passwords. "we see workers being tricked into downloading computer-virus es from hackers demanding ransoms, and we have even had employees sent whatsapp messages pretending to be from the ceo, asking for money transfers. "and having staff working from home during the lockdowns has just made it worse, as it is much harder to keep an eye on everyone." with one in three uk workers currently based exclusively at home, and the same level in the us, this remote working on a vast scale continues to be a major headache for the it security bosses of companies large and small around the world. and studies shows that many firms are not taking the issue as seriously as they should. for example, one in five uk home workers has received no training on cyber-security, according to a recent survey by legal firm hayes connor solicitors.  the report also found that two out of three employees who printed potentially sensitive work documents at home admitted to putting the papers in their bins without shredding them first. meanwhile, a separate uk study last year found that 57% of it decision makers believe that remote workers will expose their firm to the risk of a data breach. "in the rush and panic to set remote working practices up, even simple data protection practices were ignored," says christine sabino, a senior associate at hayes connor. "companies did not provide additional security relating to computers, electronic communication, phone communication." so what can both companies and home working staff do to make things as safe and secure as possible? ted harrington, a san diego-based cyber-security specialist, and author of hackable: how to do application security right, says firms should have started by giving all home workers a dedicated work laptop. while many larger companies may well have done this, not all smaller firms necessarily have the resources to do so, but mr harrington stresses its importance. "supply staff with laptops and other equipment that are owned, controlled and configured by the company," he says. "this alleviates the burden on your people to set things up right, and ensures they follow the security controls the company wants." definitely don't have staff using their personal computers for work, says sam grubb, an arkansas-based cyber-security consultant, and author of forthcoming book how cybersecurity really works. "the main problem with using your own computer to do work is that you are not limited in what you can do on it, nor are you necessarily the only one that uses it," he says. "so while you might not be visiting a shady website to download movies for free, your teenage son could be doing that exact thing on your home laptop without you even knowing. "this makes it much easier for  malware  or other attacks to happen. this might affect the work you are doing, or in a worst-case scenario, lead to the compromise of co-workers' devices, or other company devices such as servers." mr harrington says that the next step is that companies must set up a vpn or virtual private network, so that remote computers have secure and  encryption  connections with the firm's servers and everyone else in the company. mr grubb uses a transport and wildlife analogy to explain how vpns work. "a vpn is like a tunnel between two cities," he says. "instead of driving through the dark forest full of tigers, lions and bears, you drive through the underground tunnel, where no one can see you driving until you reach your destination on the other side." however, even with work laptops, vpns and the latest cyber-security software systems in place, staff can still make damaging mistakes, such as falling prey to a " phishing " email - a malicious email pretending to be a legitimate one in order to trick someone into handing over sensitive data. currently such scam emails doing the rounds include some that are pretending to be informing the targeted person that they have been exposed to covid-19, or invited to have the vaccine. they ask the recipient to clink on the link, which then tries to download  malware  onto his or her computer. new tech economy is a series exploring how technological innovation is set to shape the new emerging economic landscape. for this reason, both mr harrington and mr grubb say that it is essential that businesses give staff proper cyber-security training. "firms should be providing training to help their employees understand the threats they face," says mr grubb.  ms sabino adds that both staff and their bosses need to do their bit. she says, for example, that employees should avoid talking about work on social media, while firms should give shredders to home workers who need to print things out. with even the most cyber-security aware home workers just one click away from making a mistake, mr harrington says that firms need policies in place so that staff know who to immediately report a threat to. "if an employee falls victim to an attack, make sure that they know a) who to contact, and b) that their outreach is welcome and won't result in termination," he says. "you don't want people afraid of repercussions and thus covering up mistakes." tsedal neeley, a professor of business administration from harvard business school who is an expert on remote working, agrees that home workers should know exactly who to report cyber-security problems to. "engaging with their firm's it/cyber-security experts is crucial," she says. peter, the computer network manager, says this engagement should be frequent. "users should be suspicious of anything that they are not 100% confident about, and it does not hurt to ask your it department. it is better to check than be compromised." three men have been arrested in connection with an internet scam targeting online banking customers. the suspects, one from nigeria and two from romania, were held at a central london hotel on monday night. they are are being questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and money laundering. the arrests followed reports that 2,000  phishing  pages, which copy genuine bank sites, were put online to dupe people into entering confidential details. a large number of accounts were then illegally accessed and had money withdrawn. met police officers from the central e-crime unit working in partnership with investigators from the serious organised crime agency (soca) also seized a number of computers. further searches are ongoing in london and the midlands. security experts say a spike in email scams linked to coronavirus is the worst they have seen in years. cyber-criminals are targeting individuals as well as industries, including aerospace, transport, manufacturing, hospitality, healthcare and insurance.  phishing  emails written in english, french, italian, japanese, and turkish languages have been found. the bbc has tracked five of the campaigns. researchers at the cyber-security firm proofpoint first noticed a strange email being sent to customers in february. the message purported to be from a mysterious doctor claiming to have details about a vaccine being covered up by the chinese and uk governments.  the firm says people who click on the attached document are taken to a spoof webpage designed to harvest login details. it says up to 200,000 of the emails are being sent at a time.  "we have seen 35-plus consecutive days of malicious coronavirus email campaigns, with many using fear to convince victims to click," says sherrod degrippo from the company's threat research and detection team. proofpoint says three to four variations are launched each day. "it's obvious these campaigns are returning dividends for cyber-criminals," says ms degrippo. the best way to see where a link will take you is to hover your mouse cursor over it to reveal the true web address. if it looks dodgy, don't click.   researchers at cyber-security firm mimecast flagged this scam a few weeks ago. on the morning they detected it, they saw more than 200 examples in just a few hours.  if a member of the public clicked on "access your funds now", it would take them to a fake government webpage, encouraging them to input all their financial and tax information. "do not respond to any electronic communication in relation to monies via email," says carl wearn, head of e-crime at mimecast. "and certainly do not click on any links in any related message. this is not how hmrc would advise you of a potential tax refund." hackers pretending to represent the world health organization (who) claim that an attached document details how recipients can prevent the disease's spread. "this little measure can save you," they claim. but proofpoint says the attachment doesn't contain any useful advice, and instead infects computers with  malware  called agenttesla keylogger.  this records every keystroke and sends it to the attackers, a tactic that allows them to monitor their victims' every move online. to avoid this scam, be wary of emails claiming to be from who, as they are probably fake. instead visit its official website or social media channels for the latest advice. the subject line reads: covid-19 - now airborne, increased community transmission.  it is designed to look like it's from the centres for disease control and prevention (cdc). it uses one of the organisation's legitimate email addresses, but has in fact been sent via a spoofing tool. cofense, the cyber-defence provider, first detected the scam and describes it as an example of hackers "weaponising fear and panic".  it says the link directs victims to a fake microsoft login page, where people are encouraged to enter their email and password. then victims are redirected to the real cdc advice page, making it seem even more authentic.  of course, the hackers now have control of the email account. cofense says the combination of a "rather good forgery" and a "high stress situation" make for a potent trap. one way to protect yourself is to enable two-factor authentication, so that you have to enter a code texted or otherwise provided to you, to access your email account. this example was reported to  malware  experts kaspersky. the fake cdc email asks for donations to develop a vaccine, and requests payments be made in the cryptocurrency bitcoin.  the premise is of course ridiculous, but the email address and signature look convincing. overall, kaspersky says it has detected more 513 different files with coronavirus in their title, which contain  malware .  "we expect the numbers to grow, of course, as the real computer-virus  continues to spread," says david emm, principal security researcher at the firm. easy steps: how to keep safea simple guide:  what are the symptoms?containment: what it means to self-isolatehealth myths: the fake advice you should ignoremaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreak a web server belonging to the games company electronic arts which had been hacked and was hosting a  phishing  website, has now been fixed. the website that was put in place by hackers asked users to enter their apple ids - the credentials needed to access services like apple's itunes. a second screen then asked users to enter further personal information, including credit card details. ea said the problem had been found and hacking attempts had been stopped. paul mutton, from netcraft, the internet security company that uncovered the hack, said in a blog that it was likely a vulnerability in an online calendar application hosted on the web server had been exploited by the attackers. the calendar based on the web server was an old version of software that had since been updated, he said. "the mere presence of old software can often provide sufficient incentive for a hacker to target one system over another, and to spend more time looking for additional vulnerabilities," he wrote. once a user has entered their apple id and password on the fake website they are then asked to verify their name, date of birth, phone number and credit card details among other information. users were then directed to the legitimate apple id website, said mr mutton. it was reported earlier in the year that other servers belonging to ea had been hacked, causing problems for users trying to log on to online games and services. a hacking group known as derp posted a tweet claiming responsibility for that attack. mr mutton said he had reported the most recent problems to electronic arts. in a statement to the bbc, ea said: "we found it, we have isolated it, and we are making sure such attempts are no longer possible." michael sutton, from security research firm zscaler, said that hackers using legitimate websites to host malicious content was now the norm.  "social engineering attacks always involve an element of communication - the victim must be tricked into performing an action such as providing data, clicking on a link, downloading a file, et cetera. attackers have learned that it's far easier to simply infect an already popular web property than to attempt communication with victims directly," he said. users should check that websites are secure before entering any private information, says guidance from get safe online. they should look for a padlock symbol in the browser window frame and they should check that the web address begins with https - the "s" stands for secure. the advice also says that users should check the address in the browser's address bar after arriving at a website to check that it matches what they actually typed. easyjet has admitted that a "highly sophisticated cyber-attack" has affected approximately nine million customers. it said email addresses and travel details had been stolen and that 2,208 customers had also had their credit and debit card details "accessed". the firm has informed the uk's information commissioner's office while it investigates the breach. easyjet first became aware of the attack in january. it told the bbc that it was only able to notify customers whose credit card details were stolen in early april. "this was a highly sophisticated attacker. it took time to understand the scope of the attack and to identify who had been impacted," the airline told the bbc. "we could only inform people once the investigation had progressed enough that we were able to identify whether any individuals have been affected, then who had been impacted and what information had been accessed." stolen credit card data included the three digital security code - known as the cvv number - on the back of the card itself. easyjet added that it had gone public now in order to warn the nine million customers whose email addresses had been stolen to be wary of  phishing  attacks.  it said that it would notify everyone affected by 26 may. it did not provide details about the nature of the attack or the motives, but said its investigation suggested hackers were targeting "company intellectual property" rather than information that could be used in identity theft. "there is no evidence that any personal information of any nature has been misused, however, on the recommendation of the ico, we are communicating with the approximately nine million customers whose travel details were accessed to advise them of protective steps to minimise any risk of potential  phishing . "we are advising customers to be cautious of any communications purporting to come from easyjet or easyjet holidays." in response to the breach, the ico  said that it was investigating. "people have a right to expect that organisations will handle their personal information securely and responsibly. when that doesn't happen, we will investigate and take robust action where necessary." it also warned people to be on the lookout for  phishing  attacks and directed them to its advice on its website on how to spot such scams.  phishing  attempts - which see criminals sending emails with links to fake web pages that steal personal data - have risen exponentially during the coronavirus crisis.  google is blocking more than 100 million  phishing  emails every day to gmail users. it is likely that hackers will take advantage of the fact people are cancelling flights because of the uncertainty related to the spread of covid-19, said ray walsh, a digital privacy expert at proprivacy. "anybody who has ever purchased an easyjet flight is advised to be extremely wary when opening emails from now on," he said. " phishing  emails that leverage data stolen during the attack could be used as an attack vector at any point in the future.  "as a result, it is important for customers to be vigilant whenever they receive unsolicited emails or emails that appear to be from easyjet, as these could be fake emails which link to cloned websites designed to steal your data." the coronavirus pandemic has meant an end to much global travel, leaving airlines struggling financially. "these are already turbulent times for all companies within the aviation industry but the situation has just got significantly worse for easyjet," said mike fenton, chief executive of threat detection firm redscan. "to add to the company's woes, it is now has to explain how the personal records of nine million customers were able to be accessed. "when it comes to cyber security, the airline industry doesn't have a great record. the british airways breach in 2018 should have been a wake-up call and passenger confidence is likely to be at an all-time low after this." british airways announced that the personal details of more than half a million of its customers had been harvested by hackers in september 2018.  initially it said that only 380,000 transactions were affected and that the data did not include travel or passport details. the ico later issued a record £183m fine over the breach. compensation pay-outs to customers could see that reach £3bn. under gdpr (general data protection regulation), if easyjet is found to have mishandled customer data, it could face fines of up to 4% of its annual worldwide turnover. "it is impossible to determine yet whether or not there has been negligence but, if so, consumers could be eligible to claim compensation, raising the financial penalty imposed on the airline significantly," said aman johal from law firm your lawyers. millions of easyjet customers' details of some sort or another have been accessed by hackers - but even more people now need to be vigilant. generally, personal details can be used by fraudsters to access bank accounts, open accounts and take out loans in the innocent victims' names, make fraudulent purchases, or sell on to other criminals. the risks to those whose card details have been compromised are clear. their provider should already have stopped the card, a new one will be issued, and they will need to sort out any regular payments coming from that card. following a similar data breach at british airways in 2018, some found this a frustrating and time-consuming task. millions of people whose email addresses and travel details have been accessed will need to change passwords, and be wary of any unexpected transactions. everyone else, particularly easyjet customers whose details have not been affected, must be alert to other unsolicited emails and messages.  fraudsters will no doubt pose as easyjet, banks, or the authorities and claim to be dealing with this latest breach. they are simply trying to steal personal details themselves. are you an easyjet customer? have you been a victim of the cyber-attack? share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist.  whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy the wisconsin republican party has said hackers stole $2.3m (£1.7m) from the its effort to support president donald trump's re-election. the party contacted the fbi and agents are investigating the matter, chairman andrew hitt said in a statement on thursday. mr hitt said the hackers manipulated campaign invoices to steal the funds. in the upcoming presidential election wisconsin is seen as a key state - one mr trump won narrowly in 2016. the party's invoices for vendors were altered so that when they paid the invoices, the money did not go to the vendors, mr hitt said. he noted it appeared to have begun as a  phishing  attempt. a party spokesman said it appeared no data was stolen. the millions were taken from the wisconsin republicans' federal account. mr hitt said that state officials were warned about such cyberattacks at the party's national convention in august. the volunteer hackers protecting the us election analysis by joe tidy, bbc cyber-security reporter the information security world is tense right now waiting and watching for cyber attacks that could affect the us election. this type of attack was probably not on many people's lists of expected hacks. it sounds like an almost standard case of something called business email compromise (bec). effectively the hackers have either gained access to or spoofed an email address to put themselves between the wisconsin republican party hq and one of their suppliers. the party then transferred the money to the hackers instead of its campaign partner. in many cases of bec, banks are able to reverse the transaction and return at least some of the money to the victims. the republican party will be hoping that this is what happens here. the reported hack comes as mr trump and democratic rival joe biden are both making a final push this week to secure wisconsin ahead of the 3 november election.  there have also been hundreds of attempted attacks on the wisconsin democratic campaign, a spokeswoman told the associated press. the midwestern state is one of a handful of core battleground states - areas which could realistically go to the republicans or democrats - this election season. candidates will need to win in several states like wisconsin in order to win the presidency. how is donald trump doing in the polls? mr trump won wisconsin by fewer than 23,000 votes in 2016. recent polls have consistently shown a tight race, usually with mr biden ahead. how do us presidential elections work?: all you need to knowfour years of president trump: a look back at his time in office on bbc iplayer (uk only) a crackdown on " phishing " scams has been announced by 15 of the top technology companies. email providers such as google and microsoft will work with companies like paypal and the bank of america to improve authentication.  phishing  attacks typically involve scammers posing as familiar companies in an attempt to trick users into sharing personal information. this co-ordinated effort aims to make this more difficult. thedomain-based message authentication, reporting and conformance(dmarc) - as the coalition is known - has released plans to produce a "feedback loop" between email receivers and senders. the initiative is the first significant attempt to bring together both email and service providers along with key security organisations. dmarc said this industry-wide involvement - which covers the receivers, senders and intermediaries of email use - will mean email providers will for the first time be able to reliably filter out unwanted emails, rather than use "complex and imperfect measurements" to determine threats. it will mean an agreed standard for authenticating legitimate emails arriving at the inboxes of aol, gmail, hotmail and yahoo customers. it will verify messages from facebook, paypal, american greetings, bank of america, fidelity and linkedin. "email  phishing  defrauds millions of people and companies every year, resulting in a loss of consumer confidence in email and the internet as a whole," explained paypal's brett mcdowell, chair of dmarc. "industry co-operation - combined with technology and consumer education - is crucial to fight  phishing ." email security firms agari, cloudmark, ecert, return path and trusted domain project complete the collaboration. more companies will join the open standard as it is developed. paypal spokesman rob skinner explained how the initiative is intended to make things easier for the most vulnerable part of the security chain - the human. "half the problem is, with the best will in the world and improving technology, ultimately it's still down to the user to decide [to open an email]," he told the bbc. "the key point is trying to block emails from getting to someone's inbox - taking the worry and concern out of people's minds and doing it for them." as one of the internet's most ubiquitous payment companies, paypal often finds itself impersonated by scammers. "we've acknowledged it's been an issue," mr skinner said. "we've had a stack of initiatives over the years to cut down on it. fraudsters target any company that is well known, has a lot of customers, and operates across the globe. "we recognise our responsibility to do something about it." we usually hear about  phishing  attacks in the technology world - when impostors try to scam people out of money by tricking them into handing over their personal details.  but now it's said the technique has found its way into pop music. producer richard x says he's received contact from fraudsters "disguising" themselves as industry workers requesting he sends them music. "they get a little bit of information by searching databases, publishers catalogues or reading forums," says x, sat in his london studio.  "that's enough for them to write a cheeky email disguised as someone from the management, touring agency or someone related to the artists in an attempt to get you, the producer, to send them finished tracks or demos." richard x, who has worked with kelis, m.i.a. and the original sugababes, puts this recent development down to the actions of tech-savvy "rabid fans".  "you might think that someone wouldn't fall for these emails, but in a high turnover, fast environment, which making records is now, things are needed instantly. it's possible that you would send something," explains x. "i know of a producer recently who did send out the demos and the masters to a random person." online leaks of music traditionally come from a range of sources - everything from the artist passing new music on to a friend to a journalist leaking a promotional copy or even a producer being careless with a storage hard drive.  this development comes as many of the collaborations which regularly fill the top 40 have been recorded without the artists ever having been in the same room. instead, parts of songs are recorded and exchanged online via email, digital lockers or upload sites. earlier this month, he tweeted a link to a pop  phishing  email he'd been sent. "not to encourage things, but it does seem like an interesting way of trying to get hold of these unreleased gems," he says. "the fan-driven mentality, and rightly so, is that they want to hear new things and will do anything to get the exclusive. i personally don't think it's a big evil piracy network behind it all." whatever the motives, paul smernicki, head of digital at universal records, says it's a broad problem his company is increasingly on the look out for.  "people through the label have been made aware to be vigilant," he says. "with that particular method, the intent can only be interpreted as malicious." he says music leaking online from his artists (universal - the world's biggest record label looks after everyone from lady gaga to take that) is a "relatively frequent" occurrence. "if someone walked up to you in the street dressed as a policeman and tried to get you to do something, that would be pretty shocking," says smernicki.  "the ingenuity is surprising, but not the intent." he says pop  phishing  is among the acts of fraudsters who "really want to damage an album campaign" and that if music fans can get access to tracks for free, it could hurt sales. "some people, lots of people, may not go and buy the album," he says. "people invest loads of time, energy and emotion into doing their jobs and doing them as well as they possibly can. to have the rug pulled out from under is really hard." he says security can be an issue and points to jay-z and kanye west's watch the throne album as an "extreme example" of artists taking music protection into their own hands.  the rappers held tracks on fingerprint-protected hard drives and recorded in pop-up studios in international hotel rooms.  from it being mastered to it hitting shelves, it's not unusual for a track or an album to be sat waiting for months.  brits critics choice winner emeli sandé finished her debut album last year, but it doesn't get released until 13 february. she says she hoped it wouldn't leak, but that it feels "almost like an inevitability now that someone will find it and it will get out". "it's a real shame if it affects actual sales," sandé told newsbeat.  "people don't understand how much work goes into making a record. how much time and how hard it is to even get it released. i feel quite upset that it happens." the ting tings' second album, sounds from nowheresville, has already appeared online despite not being released until march. multi-instrumentalist with the salford band, jules de martino, takes a different view.  "art should always have a price. i'm not a big fan of people stealing stuff, even if it's a penny," he explains.  "but if you're doing your stuff honestly, creatively and it's good, then i think you will stay in the game as long as you can - sales apart. "if you're doing all right that price comes back because you're selling it in another form, whether it's tickets, t-shirts or records." two men have been charged over a £1m email scam which took money from the bank accounts of hundreds of students. police said students on government loans were sent  phishing  emails urging them to provide their banking details. damola olatunji, 26, of hamsterley avenue, manchester, and amos mwangi, 25, of rochdale way, deptford, london, face a charge of conspiracy to defraud. they were remanded in custody until 17 february by westminster magistrates' court, central london. their next appearance is due to be at southwark crown court in south-east london. mr olatunji is also charged with possession of an article for use in fraud. five other people arrested in the investigation have been bailed until march pending further inquiries. they are a 25-year-old woman arrested in manchester, a 49-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man held in stratford, north-east london. two men, aged 38 and 35, were also detained in bolton, greater manchester. they were all arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and money-laundering offences and bailed until march. the metropolitan police's e-crime unit was first alerted to the scam in august and worked with the student loans company, the banking industry and internet service providers during its investigation.  phishing  is the sending of a legitimate-looking email in an attempt to gather personal and financial information from recipients. russian spies are targeting organisations trying to develop a coronavirus vaccine in the uk, us and canada, security services have warned. the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) said the hackers "almost certainly" operated as "part of russian intelligence services". it did not specify which organisations had been targeted, or whether any information had been stolen. but it said vaccine research had not been hindered by the hackers. russia has denied responsibility. "we do not have information about who may have hacked into pharmaceutical companies and research centres in great britain. we can say one thing - russia has nothing at all to do with these attempts," said dmitry peskov, a spokesman for president putin, according to the tass news agency. the warning was published by an international group of security services: the uk's ncscthe canadian communication security establishment (cse)the united states department for homeland security (dhs) cyber-security infrastructure security agency (cisa) the us national security agency (nsa) one expert said it was "plausible" that, despite the kremlin's denials, russian spies were involved. "the received wisdom is that in cyber-space, attribution is difficult but not impossible," commented emily taylor from the chatham house think tank. "usually the security services are much more hedgy in their language if they think there is any doubt.  "cozy bear [the named group] has been implicated in past cyber-attacks and has left quite a trail, and there are fairly good links to the russian state itself." in recent years, western security agencies have become more willing to call out hackers targeting companies and organisations in their countries in the hope it will deter them.  but the latest accusations are more unusual since officials are directly pointing the finger at russian spies rather than talking generally about "state-backed hackers" or using other more cautious references.  and they are also challenging them over targeting something that the general public recognises as being highly sensitive - coronavirus vaccine research - rather than simply some company or government department's information.  however, on another level we should not be too surprised by the claim.  understanding vaccine research and other details about the pandemic has become a top target for intelligence agencies around the world and many others, including western spies, are likely to be active in this space. the uk, us and canadian agencies said the hackers had exploited software flaws to get access to vulnerable computer systems, and had used  malware  called wellmess and wellmail to upload and download files from infected machines. they are also said to have tricked individuals into handing over login credentials with spear- phishing  attacks.  phishing  emails are designed to trick the recipient into handing over their personal informationspear  phishing  is a targeted and personalised form of the attack, designed to trick a specific individual. often the email appears to come from a trusted contact, and may include some personal information to make the message seem more convincing but one cyber-security expert said the russians were unlikely to be the only ones involved in such a campaign. "they have lots of people, we have lots of people, the americans have even more people, as do the chinese," commented prof ross anderson from the university of cambridge's computer laboratory. "they are all trying to steal this kind of stuff all the time." the ncsc calls out a hacking group called advanced-persistent-threat 29, also known as the dukes or cozy bear. it says it is more than 95% certain that the group is part of the russian intelligence services. cozy bear was first identified as being a significant "threat actor" in 2014, according to the american cyber-security firm crowdstrike. it describes the group as being "aggressive" in its tactics and "nothing if not flexible, changing tool sets frequently". the unit has previously been implicated in hacking the us democratic national committee (dnc) during the us presidential election in 2016. in 2017, it attacked norway's labour party, defence and foreign ministries, as well as the country's national security service. the report includes recommendations that can help protect organisations from cyber-attacks. "throughout 2020, advanced-persistent-threat 29 has targeted various organisations involved in covid-19 vaccine development in canada, the united states and the united kingdom, highly likely with the intention of stealing information and intellectual property relating to the development and testing of covid-19 vaccines," it said. uk foreign secretary dominic raab said: "it is completely unacceptable that the russian intelligence services are targeting those working to combat the coronavirus pandemic. "while others pursue their selfish interests with reckless behaviour, the uk and its allies are getting on with the hard work of finding a vaccine and protecting global health." on thursday, the uk government also said russians had "almost certainly" sought to interfere in the 2019 uk general election through illicitly-acquired documents. "we worked very closely with our allies to ensure we would take measures to keep that information safe," said white house spokeswoman kayleigh mcenany, "and we continue to do so and we are aware of those activities." by tara mckelvey in washington dc "the national security agency, along with our partners, remains steadfast in its commitment to protecting national security by collectively issuing this critical cyber-security advisory as foreign actors continue to take advantage of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic," said nsa cyber-security director anne neuberger.  earlier in 2020, john demers, an assistant attorney general for us national security, warned that hackers working for foreign governments were trying to steal vaccine research.  he said that the first nation to find a vaccine first will gain clout on the world stage with a "significant geopolitical success story". for that reason, hackers have been pursuing vaccine research in several countries. demers and others who work in us intelligence have been watching their activities closely.  now, intelligence experts know more about the goals of the hackers and how they using spear- phishing  and  malware  to get what they want.  fraudsters "will stop at nothing to dupe people, even during the global covid-19 pandemic", a senior police officer has said. it comes after more than 40 cyber scams were reported to the police service of northern ireland (psni) between thursday and sunday. the majority of the reports involved "sextortion". "sextortion" occurs when scammers threaten to publish indecent images of their victim. the psni say the criminals have been targeting people from counties antrim, down, tyrone and londonderry. "scammers are ruthless, unscrupulous individuals who don't care about the impact of their actions on victims, which can sometimes be life changing and which often have a significant impact," said mr walls. "all scammers care about is getting money from their victims.”  he said most of the reports made to police involve an email which says that if the recipient does not pay £2,000 then indecent images of the person will be released. others are  phishing  emails in which the scammers claim to know the recipient's passwords and will share images of the person if they do not pay a fee. there have also been reports of people being targeted over the phone. “it's really important that parents and guardians know what their loved ones' online activity is, who their children are engaging with and what sites they are visiting," added mr walls. "it's also important people have a conversation with their loved ones, and with each other, so they are aware of the extraordinary lengths scammers will go to and the abhorrent tactics they will employ." a tweet announcing the relaunch of uk high street retailer woolworths has gone viral, despite being fake. the twitter account @ukwoolworths, which has now been deleted, misspelled the shop's name. and it linked to a website that was not active and had, bbc news has learned, been registered only hours earlier.  metro, which appears to have been the first mainstream media outlet to report the fake news, has now corrected its story. very, the company that owns the local rights to the woolworths brand, confirmed it was a hoax. "we own the woolworths trademark in the uk," a spokesman told bbc news.  "the twitter account ukwoolworths is not connected to the very group."  the original tweet read: "here to save 2020.  "woolworths is coming back to your high street, as a physical store.  "a couple of legal things to get sorted but we're full steam ahead at woolworths hq. "we want to get this right, so we need your help.  "what do you want at your uk #yourwoolworths?" ray walsh, scam expert at virtual private network (vpn) company proprivacy, said: "it's not unsurprising that huge numbers of people around the uk have fallen for fake news surrounding the reopening of woolworths. "the brand was a much-loved part of uk shopping history. "and many have fond memories of the retailer. "but the twitter account spreading the hoax was full of typos and spelling mistakes. "this alone should have been enough to make it obvious that something extremely fishy was going on. "the important take away from all of this is how social engineering and nostalgia can be used to trick people. "and it serves as an important reminder of why people need to think carefully when using the internet to avoid falling for scams and  phishing  attacks." woolworths closed its doors for good in 2008, owing £385m.  the shops, famous for their pic'n'mix sweets, also sold kitchen and garden equipment and toys.  one of the uk's oldest chains it had 815 stores, many of which were taken over by shops such as wilko and poundland. the woolworths name remains in use in australia, new zealand and south africa as an unrelated retail brand. this was the fake news story 2020 needed - and it might seem less important than harmful coronavirus conspiracy theories or political disinformation, which have spread on wildfire on social media in recent months.  but it does teach us some important lessons about how and why disinformation spreads on social media.   we tend to share posts that we want to be true or that confirm our biases - who isn't missing woolworth's pic'n'mix, especially during a pandemic?  that partly explains why the tweet from the fake woolworth's account - which kept spelling the name of the chain wrong - went so viral. but it also highlights the need for verification - and the role of the media in amplifying disinformation.  a quick ring around would have confirmed that woolworth's is not re-opening - but that did not stop a number of news outlets covering this fake twitter account.  xbox live users are being urged to check their accounts after some say they were scammed by a fake email. the  phishing  attack sent users to a fake site where they were asked to input personal details like addresses, emails and credit card details. microsoft is investigating and says a small percentage of users are affected. "we take the security of the xbox live service seriously and work to improve it against evolving threats," a microsoft spokesman said. "very occasionally, though, we are contacted by members regarding alleged unauthorized access to their accounts by outside individuals." the spokesman continued: "we can confirm that only a small percentage of xbox live customers have been affected here in the uk.  "we work closely with impacted members directly to resolve any unauthorized changes to their accounts and, as always, highly recommend all xbox live users follow our account security guidance in order to protect their account details." microsoft confirmed there had been no breach in the security of xbox live itself. the company says there is advice on its website about staying safe online but advises that people should never give out passwords or email addresses. it says users should never type personal information into websites unless they are sure that they are genuine. jason hart, md of cryptocard and a former ethical hacker, said: "xbox customers are finding that they might have had more than £100 pilfered from their accounts. "this is the third instance of hacking to hit the gaming industry in as many months and it is clear that hackers are finding it all too easy to steal gamers' identities and access the financial information they need to make off with users cash." "they're exploiting the fear, uncertainty and doubt people are experiencing during the pandemic, and using the anxiety and desperation to get people to buy things or click on things they wouldn't have otherwise," says morgan wright, a former senior adviser to the us department of state anti-terrorism assistance programme. he's talking about the scammers and criminals that inhabit the "dark web" who have found a new angle - anxiety over covid-19. mr wright, who is now chief security adviser at security software company sentinelone, used to teach behavioural analysts at the us national security agency (nsa) about the exploitation of human behaviour.  he is now seeing some of those techniques being used on the dark web, an  encryption  part of the internet that can be accessed using popular networks such as tor. the tor browser is privacy-focused, meaning it can obscure who is using it and what data is being accessed. it offers bad actors a way to operate with a degree of impunity, as law enforcement find it much more difficult to track down criminals that use it. tor is a way to access the internet that requires software, known as the tor browser, to use it. the name is an acronym for the onion router. just as there are many layers to the vegetable, there are many layers of  encryption  on the network. it was originally designed by the us naval research laboratory, and continues to receive funding from the us state department. it attempts to hide a person's location and identity by sending data across the internet via a very circuitous route involving several "nodes" - which, in this context, means using volunteers' pcs and computer servers as connection points.  encryption  applied at each hop along this route makes it very hard to connect a person to any particular activity. to the website that ultimately receives the request, it appears as if the data traffic comes from the last computer in the chain - known as an "exit node" - rather than the person responsible. since the beginning of the global pandemic, marketplaces on the dark web have seen a rise in covid-19 related products and services. sought-after n95 masks, gowns, gloves and the drug chloroquine have all been listed on these marketplaces. last month, security software firm intsights found blood allegedly belonging to recovered coronavirus patients was even being offered for sale.  criminals hope a heightened sense of fear will make people rush to buy these products, and as a result these items are not cheap; an australian institute of criminology report found the average fake vaccine was being sold for about $370 (£300), while one supposedly sourced from china was selling for between $10-15,000 (£8-12,000). one of the reasons for the rise in such sales may be because many fraudsters are having to turn from their normal methods of making money on the dark web - such as selling fake flights booked using stolen airmiles - because these industries are currently dormant.  many criminals also see an opportunity - as the majority of people are working from home, there is a greater chance of lax cyber security in place.  "there was suddenly a huge shift [on the dark web] of talking about vulnerabilities in collaboration software when they realised people were going to be working from home," says intsights chief security officer etay maor.  more technology of business how coronavirus is changing nhs technologythe robot assistant that can guess what you wantsolar power moves towards a breakthrough stepthe stealthy drones that fly like insectsthe secret chemical cocktails behind coronavirus testing  phishing  scams have also been on the rise. these are where fraudsters pretend to be a different organisation or person by email, hoping the person will provide some login details or personal data, which can then be used to steal money or someone's identity.  "the  phishing  attacks started with those pretending to be from the nhs, and then extended to secondary organisations that are related to covid-19 like banks or hmrc emailing about funding, grants or being furloughed," says javvad malik, security advocate at training company knowbe4. "now there are covid-19 related  phishing  templates making their way into all of the  phishing  kits that are available on the dark web - meaning people can imitate apple or linkedin with a set of standard templates," he adds. in addition, many services and products, including  phishing  kits are being offered at discount in "coronavirus sales". "there are people who have been specialising in  phishing  pages, shady vpns or spamming services for a number of years, who are now offering discounts because they believe it's the best time to make money and spread these kits," says liv rowley, threat intelligence analyst at blueliv, a computer and network security firm. the dark web was designed by the us naval research laboratory, with the idea of enabling human rights activists and people within the military to talk and collaborate in a secure, anonymous way.  while the introduction of bitcoin enabled criminals to make money on the dark web, there remains a huge number of users that opt to use it for its initial purpose - speaking to others anonymously on forums. according to mr malik, these forums have often been used to fuel conspiracy theories around the computer-virus . "conspiracies about 5g being the vehicle of this computer-virus , or bioweaponry or that bill gates is the man behind it tend to crop up on the dark web," he says. as social media companies and other news outlets crack down on misinformation, many others may be pushed onto the dark web. these forums often act as a gateway to marketplaces, for people to plug their products or services to a targeted audience. this could be a way for fraudsters to make further money in the months to come.  the flipside to this is that many journalists, activists and citizens may be using the dark web to communicate in countries where there is a lot of censorship. tor versions of many news outlets, including the bbc and new york times, may be used if the original sites are blocked by governments or states, for instance.  netblocks, a digital rights advocacy group says that many countries have cut access to the web in different ways, as they seek to control the flow of information about the coronavirus outbreak. two  ransomware  groups had said they would not attack any hospitals or healthcare organisations during the pandemic, but as foreign secretary dominic raab outlined in a recent press briefing, there is evidence that criminal gangs are actively targeting national and international organisations that are responding to the pandemic - including hospitals. "these organisations are targeted because of how vulnerable they are at this time and because of the likelihood that a ransom would be paid," says charity wright, cyber threat intelligence adviser at intsights. the co-ordination and orchestration of many of these attacks often begin on the dark web. "we are seeing more offerings on the dark web specifically for healthcare-related information and for targeting healthcare facilities and doctors. there's even a database someone has created on the dark web with all kinds of information about medical staff," says etay maor from intsights.  at its core, the dark web may still be being used for the same reasons it was intended to be used for - from a privacy and security perspective. but criminals are using this to try to exploit a global crisis for financial gain. "that's the double-edged sword that as a society we haven't quite worked out: how do we safeguard freedom of speech and ensure privacy, but at the same time track down and stop people abusing those freedoms?" says javvad malik.  facebook have stepped up their battle against  phishing  and  malware  scammers by partnering with security firm websense. as of next week, users will be warned if they are about to be taken to a malicious website. the social network has suffered to date as many of its 700 million users unwittingly click on dangerous links supposedly posted by their friends. such attacks usually trick users into sharing passwords or data. facebook already tells users if they are about to visit an external site, but the current set up makes no distinction between friendly and dangerous sites. the new technology will present a warning screen whenever it suspects a page poses a threat to the users, giving details of the risk. from here, users are encouraged to return to the previous page.  if they wish, users can continue to the intended page, albeit very much at their own risk. both facebook and websense will hope the extra measures will be enough to deter potential scammers from focusing their efforts on the network. scams regularly catch out hundreds of thousands of users at a time. "there's over 700 million users on facebook," websense's spencer parker told the bbc.  "as a piece of real estate, it's extremely profitable to be targeted by  malware  writers." the protection will be powered by websense's "threatseeker cloud", a system which stores a database of known malicious urls. the system can also detect unknown dangerous urls by assessing threats in real-time. this means harmful urls can be blocked even before they are known to the company - cutting off a key tactic used by phishers in which constantly changing urls fool database-driven protection. in addition, the system will "follow" links made using popular url shorteners - such as bit.ly and ow.ly - to verify their safety. due to the nature of how we interact with our friends, mr parker says  phishing  attacks on facebook are much harder to prevent than other commonly used techniques. "one of the things with facebook, of course, is that you have that element of trust in a social network. if one of your friends posts something, you automatically trust it more than if it just received as a spam email. "as more of these 'friend in the middle' attacks happen, you start to trust your friends less." a man living in bognor regis - on the uk south coast - is one of three individuals charged over a major twitter hack, according to the us department of justice. californian authorities filed felony charges against mason sheppard, 19.  the uk's national crime agency (nca) confirmed it had searched a property in bognor regis with police on friday.  a teenager in tampa and nima fazeli, 22, of orlando, were also charged in florida. us attorney david l anderson said the arrests proved "nefarious hacking... for fun or profit" did not pay off.  twitter accounts of multiple high-profile us figures were hijacked in an apparent bitcoin scam on 15 july. they included former president barack obama, amazon boss jeff bezos, entrepreneur elon musk, microsoft founder bill gates, democratic presidential hopeful joe biden and reality star kim kardashian west, who all falsely tweeted out requests for bitcoin donations. in his statement, us attorney anderson said: "there is a false belief within the criminal hacker community that attacks like the twitter hack can be perpetrated anonymously and without consequence."   he added: "criminal conduct over the internet may feel stealthy to the people who perpetrate it, but there is nothing stealthy about it.  in particular, i want to say to would-be offenders, break the law, and we will find you." major us twitter accounts hacked in bitcoin scamtwitter hack: what went wrong and why it matterstwitter hack: staff tricked by phone spear- phishing  scam in florida, hillsborough state attorney andrew warren filed 30 felony charges against the teenager, 17, who cannot be named, for "scamming people across america". the charges include organised fraud and fraudulent use of personal information.  "as a crypto-currency, bitcoin is difficult to track and recover if stolen in a scam," mr warren said. "these crimes were perpetrated using the names of famous people and celebrities, but they're not the primary victims here. this 'bit-con' was designed to steal money from regular americans from all over the country, including here in florida. "this massive fraud was orchestrated right here in our backyard, and we will not stand for that." the charges against the teenager include 17 counts of communication fraud, 10 counts of fraudulent use of personal information, one count of fraudulent use of personal information with over $100,000 (£76,340) or 30 or more victims, one count of organised fraud and one count of access to computers or electronic devices without authority. "he's a 17 year-old kid who apparently just graduated high school," said state attorney warren. "but no make no mistake, this was not an ordinary 17-year-old. this was a highly sophisticated attack on a magnitude not seen before." he added that the investigation to "discover the perpetrator" was a collaboration between the florida department of law enforcement, the us attorney's office for the northern district of california, the fbi, the irs, and the secret service. the teenager lives in tampa, florida and so will be prosecuted by hillsborough state authorities.  twitter said in a statement: "we appreciate the swift actions of law enforcement in this investigation and will continue to cooperate as the case progresses. "for our part, we are focused on being transparent and providing updates regularly." after the hack, twitter said the hackers had targeted its employees "with access to internal systems and tools". it added that "significant steps" had been taken to limit access to such internal systems and tools while the company's investigation continued. according to bbc cyber-security reporter joe tidy, the consensus in the information security community is that twitter's employees were likely duped by a spear- phishing  attack via a phone call. this involves using friendly persuasion and trickery to get victims to hand over crucial information that enables hackers to infiltrate a company's systems.  a 21-year-old man has admitted hacking into nintendo's servers, leaking details about unreleased products and possessing child sexual abuse images. ryan hernandez, known online as ryan west and ryanrocks, stole and leaked information about the nintendo switch before it was released. when fbi agents seized his devices in 2019, they also found he had downloaded child sexual abuse images and videos. he pleaded guilty to the charges and will be sentenced in april. in 2016, hernandez and an associate had used a " phishing " attack to trick a nintendo employee into handing over their login details, the us department of justice (doj) said. he used these to download confidential files and information about the nintendo switch, which he leaked to the public. in 2017, when hernandez was still under 18, the fbi visited him at his parents' home, in california.  he told the officers he would stop hacking and understood the consequences if he continued. but he had resumed his activity in 2018, the doj said. he hacked into a nintendo server and stole developer tools and information about unreleased games, boasting on social media about his finds. when the fbi returned to his home, in june 2019, they found devices designed to access stolen video games as well as thousands of stolen nintendo files. they also found more than a thousand images and videos of child sexual abuse in a folder he named "bad stuff". under the terms of his plea agreement, prosecutors will recommend hernandez spends three years in prison. however, the sentence will be decided by a judge and he could be given a 20-year term for possession of the child abuse images. hernandez has agreed to pay nintendo damages of about $260,000 (£199,000) and will also registered as a sex offender following his conviction. a gang demanded an £800,000 bitcoin ransom in a cyber attack on a firm owned by kent county council, and leaked its data on the dark web. kent commercial services (kcs) delivers services and supplies to public authorities, including protective equipment during the covid-19 crisis. no ransom was paid and no personal data relating to taxpayers was stolen, kcs said. the information commissioner said kcs had been given data protection advice. kcs chief executive john burr said: "the timing of this attack is particularly malicious and challenging given the current covid-19 pandemic." the local democracy reporting service was told the attack bore "the hallmarks of starting with a  phishing  email that was used to introduce a computer-virus  that then compromised the network". the hackers  encryption  the firm's systems and data and demanded payment to release and repair them on 2 april. stolen data that went on the dark web contained business and corporate information relating to business activities of kcs, based in aylesford. it took the company over four weeks to get the majority of systems back online with additional security, with remaining systems going live in the next two weeks. the firm, which has an annual revenue of about £350m, is owned by the council but operates independently. a spokesman for the information commissioner's office said: "we were made aware of this incident and looked into the details. we provided data protection advice to the organisation and concluded no further action was necessary at this time." when david bale received a call from his bank to tell him his account had been hacked, he was naturally concerned. the call had come from what looked like a genuine tsb number, but it was a spoof and the caller was a fraudster. impersonation scams such as this nearly doubled to 15,000 cases in the first half of the year, according to new figures from banking trade body uk finance. the criminal persuaded mr bale that funds needed to be transferred to a "safe account", so he allowed payments totalling nearly £6,000 to be made. "i felt humiliated and very foolish, but they were very convincing. everyone is gullible when you are caught on the hop," the 76-year-old said. "i felt myself in a spider's web, only slowly did i become aware there was something odd." when the con-artist demanded more information mr bale become more suspicious, ending the call and contacting the bank. the money was refunded under a tsb pledge to cover all fraud losses suffered by innocent victims. thousands of other victims of fraud have not been so lucky. most of the biggest players in the uk banking sector are signed up to an agreement to ensure victims of so-called authorised push payment fraud are refunded when they or their bank are not to blame. however, with £126m of losses considered under the new code in the first half of the year, only £48m (38%) was refunded, new data from uk finance shows. banks reveal 10 coronavirus scams to be wary ofaged over 100 and targeted by fraudsters banks consider cases individually, and point out that some people are not refunded as they have ignored scam warnings. however, concerns have been raised over the inconsistency of the code between different banks. regulators have warned that the "right outcomes" had not always resulted in these cases, and uk finance now wants the code to become law. overall, £208m was lost to authorised push payment fraud in the first half of the year, when victims were persuaded to make transfers to people they believe are genuine traders or service providers.  a total of £374m was lost to criminals through other, unauthorised fraud, such as when banking security systems are circumvented. uk finance has warned that criminals are using the coronavirus crisis to trick people - often as they use online or mobile banking for the first time - into giving their personal and financial details. as a result, it expects fraud levels to rise in the latter half of the year and early next year. "criminals have ruthlessly adapted to this pandemic with scams exploiting the rise in people working from home and spending time online," said katy worobec, managing director of economic crime at uk finance. "these range from investment scams promoted on social media and search engines to the use of  phishing  emails and fake websites to harvest people's data." the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud universities and colleges are being warned by the uk's cyber-security agency that rising numbers of cyber-attacks are threatening to disrupt the start of term. the national cyber security centre has issued an alert after a recent spike in attacks on educational institutions. these have been " ransomware " incidents which block access to computer systems. paul chichester, the ncsc's director of operations, says such attacks are "reprehensible". the return to school, college and university, already facing problems with covid-19, now faces an increased risk from cyber-attacks, which the security agency says could "de-rail their preparations for the new term". the cyber-security body, part of the gchq intelligence agency, says attacks can have a "devastating impact" and take weeks or months to put right. newcastle university and northumbria have both been targeted by cyber-attacks this month, and a group of further education colleges in yorkshire and a higher education college in lancashire faced attacks last month. newcastle university faces cyber-attacknorthumbria university hit by cyber-attackuk universities in blackbaud attackleeds college group under cyber-attackhackers beat university cyber-defences in two hoursstudents blamed for college cyber-attacks the warning from the ncsc follows a spate of  ransomware  attacks against academic institutions - in which  malware  or " malware " is used to lock out users from their own computer systems, paralysing online services, websites and phone networks. the security agency says this is often followed by a ransom note demanding payment for the recovery of this frozen or stolen data - sometimes with the added threat of publicly releasing sensitive information. universities have frequently been targets of cyber-attacks - with up to a thousand attacks per year in the uk.  attacks can be attempts to obtain valuable research information that is commercially and politically sensitive. universities also hold much personal data about students, staff and, in some cases, former students who might have made donations. earlier this summer more than 20 universities and charities in the uk, us and canada were caught up in a  ransomware  cyber-attack involving a cloud computing supplier, blackbaud. a freedom of information inquiry in july, carried out by the topline comms digital public relations company, found 35 uk universities, out of 105 responses, had faced  ransomware  attacks over the past decade. there were 25 which had not had attacks - and a further 43 which declined to answer. one university reported 42 separate  ransomware  attacks since 2013. the warning from the ncsc highlights the vulnerability of online systems for remote working, as increased numbers of staff are working from home.  " phishing " attacks, where people are tricked into clicking on a malicious link such as in an email, also remains a common pathway for such  ransomware  attempts, says the advice. mr chichester of the ncsc says: "the criminal targeting of the education sector, particularly at such a challenging time, is utterly reprehensible." "i would strongly urge all academic institutions to take heed of our alert." universities uk says data security has had to become a priority for higher education - and that "protections are in place to manage threats as much as possible". the universities body also says it is working with the ncsc to produce "robust guidance on cyber-security" which will be released later this academic year. the personal data of students and applicants has been stolen in a "sophisticated and malicious"  phishing  attack at lancaster university. officials said the information had been used to send bogus invoices to undergraduate applicants. "a very small number" of student records, phone numbers and id documents were also accessed, it said. the national crime agency (nca) said the university had suffered a "compromise of its systems". in a statement, the university said it became aware of a breach on friday and has been working to secure its systems. it said the data included names, addresses, phone numbers and emails, linked to students who had applied to join the university in 2019 and 2020. "we are aware that fraudulent invoices are being sent to some undergraduate applicants," it said. "at the present time, we know of a very small number of students who have had their record and id documents accessed." it said the affected students would be contacted with advice.   phishing  involves attempts to trick web users into handing over sensitive information. an nca spokesman said: "a criminal investigation led by the nca's national cyber crime unit is now under way, and it would not be appropriate to comment further at this stage." a spokesman for the information commissioner's office said it had received a report from the university and would assess the information provided.  lawyer helen davenport, who advises clients on cyber security, said it was "essential" sectors such as higher education took cyber-security risks "seriously" and put training and software in place to "proactively shield against future attacks". she said "all eyes" would now be on how the attack had impacted students' data and how the university intended "to guard against something likely to be attempted again".  failure to do so "could affect the attractiveness of the university to future candidates", she added. banned 'your wife is hot' ad appears on billboardseals injured fleeing tombstoners and sightseersstuntman injured filming fast & furious 9 have you been affected? contact us at: northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk online child abusers are seeking to take advantage of the coronavirus pandemic, international law enforcement agency europol has warned. europol said it had information that “strongly indicates increased online activity by those seeking child abuse material”. with schools closed and many working from home, children are more likely to be using the internet unsupervised. the agency also said cyber-criminals are taking advantage of the crisis. in online forums and boards, child abusers are ”welcoming opportunities to engage with children”, europol said. it warned that abusers expect children “to be more vulnerable due to isolation, less supervision and greater online exposure”. a spokeswoman said the agency could not share which national law enforcement agencies had raised concerns, but described the increase in activity as a “worrying trend”. a simple guide:  what are the symptoms?avoiding contact: should i self-isolate?stress: how to protect your mental healthlook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreak supervision needed “there are lots of kids at home, off school, and they’re online while their parents are busy working,” said prof alan woodward, a cyber-security expert at the university of surrey. “understand the risk - it’s the very time that these people take advantage of your attention being somewhere else.” the nspcc said technology companies also had a “vital job” to do in protecting children from abusers on their platforms - and report suspicious activity to police. “worryingly, abusers will see this national health emergency as an opportunity to target children who are spending more time online and may be feeling increasingly lonely or anxious because of the lockdown,” said andy burrows, nspcc head of child safety online.  “at home it is now more important than ever for parents and carers to be having regular conversations with their children about what they’re doing online, and that they know they can come to you with any worries they may have.” the nspcc’s net aware website contains information for parents about different social networks and websites, and how to stay safe online. it has recently added articles about video chat and livestreaming services, and the newly-popular netflix party extension. europol’s report also warned of the high level of other cyber-crime, including  phishing  emails that pretend to contain information about the computer-virus  in links and attachments which "aim to profit from the global health concern.” many of the scams being employed are classic cyber-attacks, with a new coronavirus angle in the way they are presented. “the psychology they’re using is the same, but some of the classic human responses are heightened at the moment,” prof woodward said. "fear, doubt, and uncertainty is a classic one to play on.” about £2m has been lost to coronavirus-related fraud in the uk as criminals look to cash in on the crisis. at least 824 people have fallen victim to covid-19 scams this year, according to latest figures from action fraud.  experts say criminals are playing on computer-virus  fears and posing as official sources to obtain details from people seeking compensation. a fraud expert told the bbc criminals were trading "templates" on how to defraud people on the dark web. and analysis shows more than 70,000 "malicious" websites have also sprung up since the global pandemic was declared. guidance issued by the national cyber security centre (ncsc) has detected "more uk government branded scams relating to covid-19 than any other subject," since the start of march. there are now 2,500 they are aware of, ranging from fake offers of tax rebates to bogus medicines. the organisation says criminals are primarily targeting people with covid-19 related " phishing " emails.  these attempt to make individuals hand over personal or even bank details, usually by clicking on a link first. a simple guide:  what are the symptoms?new guidance: what must i do?new restrictions: what are they?look-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreak one particular scam asks android users to download a "coronavirus tracker app" to see cases in their area.  in fact, it installs  ransomware  - a type of software aimed at stealing information - on the user's phone.  emails may "spoof" organisations such as the world health organization (who) or an individual with "dr" in their title, the ncsc says. a known scam purports to be sent on behalf of the government and is offering payments to people "as part of its promise to battle covid-19". the national crime agency (nca) says fraudsters are "adapting their behaviour under lockdown." as a response it says it is "redoubling" its efforts to bring them to justice and is deploying more officers online. so far, the nca has taken down six web domains known to be exploiting the computer-virus . however, one expert believes criminals are also exploiting the fact that people are at home by calling landlines. founder of the fraud alert website and former metropolitan police detective, colin holder, is one of many security experts who monitor dark web criminal forums for signs of new scamming methods. often criminals will share "templates" or guides showing how to crack passwords and defraud people. he said they would now look to cash in on landline numbers they may have purchased in recent years.  "they are trading a vast amount of mobile numbers every day, but a lot of people now don't answer mobile numbers they don't recognise," mr holder said. "if you are at home, you are very likely to answer your landline - so we have seen home numbers being traded quite consistently. this is the time they will look to use them. "criminals never want to spend money, but where else can you get someone else's home phone number from now?" mr holder said criminals will often start the call with the home occupant's name to "lull" them into a conversation. "then if they have some data from an official source it makes them sound legitimate," he added. mr holder said criminals may not even ask for a bank account - they may be looking for a piece of information that could lead to a password or the answer to a commonly used security question such as "mother's maiden name". editor of the proprivacy.com website sean mcgrath has compiled a list of newly registered websites linked to  phishing  scams or considered "malicious" by security companies since the outbreak. in january, there were 1,772 new urls registered worldwide. in march that jumped to 62,771. they include website titles such as "childcarecorona.com" and "heatingincorona.com".  many appear to look legitimate and feature the same wording and branding as the world health organisation. "at the very least the websites are spreading misinformation," said mr mcgrath. "they are part of campaigns that want to spread a message that is disingenuous. "at the other end these are sites that, by getting you to download something, are installing  malware  or  ransomware  on your computer. "the criminality is spreading at the same rate as the computer-virus  itself." mr mcgrath said the websites work by preying on a need for information in a time of crisis. most are sent out as a link in a  phishing  email. action fraud has urged people to watch out for scam emails that appear to be from official sources and to research sites before buying goods online.  it says you should also always install the latest software and app updates to protect devices from the latest threats. for more advice on internet shopping visit the action fraud website. for information on how to update your device, head to the ncsc's dedicated page. the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) said it took down more than 2,000 online coronavirus scams last month.  ncsc said this included 471 fake online shops that were selling fraudulent computer-virus -related items. it coincides with new online safety advice from the agency as part of a national awareness campaign. ncsc also launched an email reporting service, which the public can use to flag any suspicious activity.  numerous other  malware  and  phishing  sites have been removed, as well as almost 900 advance-fee fraud schemes, where a large sum of money is promised in return for a one-off payment.  there is growing concern that criminals are hoping to capitalise on the increased usage of the internet during the pandemic. google blocking 18m coronavirus scam emails a daymps summon china-owned firm over security concerns “criminals are seeking to exploit our greater use of emails, video conferencing and other technologies for their advantage," said minister for security james brokenshire. “it’s despicable that they are using the coronavirus outbreak as cover to try to scam and steal." the public is being advised to forward suspicious emails to report@ phishing .gov.uk. an automated program will test websites flagged as a result, and block those determined to be suspicious.  joe tidy, cyber-security reporter these scams nearly always start with an email.  the ncsc’s suspicious email reporting service provides a way to report dodgy messages. the problem is that recipients often do not recognise them as such.  i’ve been tracking coronavirus  phishing  emails since the start of the outbreak.  some are laughable: "please send $250 worth of itunes gift cards for essential lockdown supplies!"  but there are many others that are well designed and hard to spot.  fake emails are in circulation that appear to be from the world health organisation (who). they are cleanly written, have all the correct logos and signatures, and even look like they have been sent from a who email address.  it’s all fake though, and victims who download the accompanying "advice document" may give control of their finances to hackers. the ncsc says the public needs to be highly suspicious. don’t download or click on anything unless you are absolutely certain of the sender, and if the offer seems too good to be true, it probably is. commander karen baxter, national lead for fraud with the city of london police, said the service was developed to help "empower the public" during a time of crisis.  “law enforcement is working closely with the government to ensure the public, and businesses, are as well equipped as possible to fight online harms," she said. “officers have already executed a number of warrants across the country to target and disrupt criminals sending emails and texts designed to steal your money.” social media giants vowed last month to combat the spread of misinformation related to covid-19.  with demand for personal protective equipment (ppe) soaring, an investigation by the news site wired reported that scammers were using linkedin to sell fake goods after being blocked by ebay and amazon. “people do use linkedin to find customers, close deals, and build relationships," the microsoft-owned social network told the publication. "however, it is absolutely not acceptable, especially now, for someone to use their linkedin profile or a post on the platform to inappropriately promote that they have personal protective equipment available to sell." the firm said it was investigating the matter. fake fines and testing kits and bogus requests for donations are among coronavirus-related scams targeting the public, officials have said.  the department for the economy has warned everyone to remain vigilant following a rise in reported fraud. it said being isolated with friends or family could make people lower their guard. action fraud, the uk's reporting centre for fraud, said there has been £4.6m in losses nationwide during lockdown. to combat fraud, trading standards service - a part of the department for the economy - is distributing 'wash your hands of coronavirus scams' leaflets with food packages.  "at a time when we see communities really coming together to support each other, it is despicable that some of our most vulnerable citizens are being targeted so callously," said damien doherty, chief inspector of trading standards service.  he said his organisation did not "want to scare people at a time when they are already anxious", but urged everyone to be vigilant against fraudsters.  mr doherty added that other scams not related to coronavirus "continue unabated". in a statement, the department flagged a range of offences which had been used to target the public during the lockdown. these included:   fake lockdown fines, which involved victims being contacted by bogus text messages claiming to be from the governmentfake testing kits, or those that claim to cure or prevent covid-19fake companies, which purported to offer holiday refundsonline shopping scams, where products are not delivered, or untested lower-quality products were deliveredolder people being targeted on their doorsteps by criminals offering to do their shopping phishing  emails, themed around the coronavirus, aimed at getting people to open malicious attachmentsdoorstep cleaning services, claiming clean drives, letterboxes, and doorways prevent the spread of the computer-virus people on benefits being targeted through scams where they are offered help accessing government supportdonations scams, where thieves claim to be collecting for a covid-19 vaccine tips to avoid falling victim to scams can be found on the ni direct website. fraudsters have developed a "worrying" scam based on the government's coronavirus contact tracing app, officials have warned. the smartphone app is being trialled on the isle of wight and is expected to be rolled out nationwide. people across britain have received scam texts purportedly generated by the app, the chartered trading standards institute (ctsi) said. the message links to a bogus website which asks for personal details. the scam text reads: "someone who came in contact with you tested positive or has shown symptoms for covid-19 & recommends you self-isolate/get tested." ctsi lead officer katherine hart said she had received a scam text herself and was aware of recipients across england, scotland and wales. she said: "this worried me because at this particular time we are all at risk. "i am especially concerned that scams themed around the contact tracing app are already appearing, even though the official nhs app has only been released in a limited testing phase on the isle of wight." the app records people's proximity to other app users, allowing potential infection routes to be traced. on tuesday, health secretary matt hancock said the app would be rolled out across england in mid-may. it has been downloaded more than 55,000 times since it was launched on the isle of wight. ms hart said the ctsi had detected an "incredible surge" in coronavirus-related fraud, ranging from fake hand sanitiser advertisements to  phishing  messages similar to the isle of wight app scam. in april, action fraud, estimated coronavirus fraudsters had conned about £2m from victims. a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exercisehope and loss: your coronavirus storieslook-up tool: check cases in your areatesting: can i get tested for coronavirus? facebook has been host to "dozens" of busy marketplaces and exchanges used by cyber-thieves to buy and sell stolen goods, suggests a security firm. researchers at cisco found 74 groups on facebook that openly traded stolen credit card numbers and bank account details. the groups had a regular membership of about 385,000 people, they found. facebook said it had shut down the groups for breaking the social network's policies on financial fraud. jon munshaw and jaeson schultz from cisco's talos security division detailed their findings in a blog and said they were surprised that the thieves were operating "right out in the open". often, said the pair, pursuing cyber-criminals involved tracing them to hidden servers on dark web addresses, rather than just searching on social media sites. instead, they said, the gangs operating on facebook took few steps to conceal what they were doing. the groups exhibited a wide variety of behaviours that spanned the spectrum from "shady" to "illegal". some openly advertised hacking,  phishing  and spamming services, while others sought buyers for stolen personal finance information that included both credit card numbers and personal documents, including driving licences and id cards. facebook's own algorithms also proved useful because they "helpfully" suggested other similar-themed groups once the two researchers started looking for card thieves, spammers and other cyber-criminals. across the groups, payment was accepted in crypto-currencies or via payment services such as paypal, said the talos team. some groups used middlemen or "mules" to pipe cash to buyers.  the talos researchers said they initially tried to get the groups shut down by using facebook's own on-site tools but this proved ineffective. to make a bigger impact, the team built up links with facebook's internal security team and passed on detailed information about the criminal marketplaces.  this led to the "majority" of the groups being removed, they said, but some were still active and talos was still working to shut these down.   facebook said it removed groups that "violated" policies against spam and financial fraud. it added: "we know we need to be more vigilant and we're investing heavily to fight this type of activity."  in june this year, tellings home made furniture service "borrowed" £50,000 from a government covid bail-out scheme.  there was just one problem. the company isn't real - the loan went to a criminal gang, who will never pay it back. mark telling, though, does exist and had no idea a company had been set up in his name. when we told him his personal details had been stolen to set up a bogus company to steal money from the government, he was horrified. "that's crazy, shocking, it's going to worry us to death," he said. uk banks get 100,000 loan applications on first dayarrest over £110k covid small business loan fraud mark - who's 47 and works in the building trade - and his partner are saving to buy a house. "i don't know what else is to come," he added. and mark may be one of many. victims could find themselves liable for the debt and have their credit rating badly affected. a bbc investigation has found criminals are setting up fake businesses on an industrial scale and successfully applying for government-backed covid emergency loans - with no intention of paying the money back. they claim up to £50,000 on each application. the bounce back loan scheme - or bbls - was announced in april and is designed to help small firms stay afloat during the crisis.  the loans are 100% backed by the government and do not have to be paid off for six years. they are interest free for the first 12 months, and are administered by 12 banks. but we have uncovered evidence criminals are taking advantage of the system and could be making millions of pounds.  one fraud expert, a retired detective, has called it a "scandal" and said we may never know the true scale of the problem. the treasury insists banks are taking "appropriate precautions" and the government would take "criminal action against the most serious cases". the revelations come after the head of the national audit office told the guardian the bbls was the "riskiest" of all the bailout measures. so, how does the fraud work? gangs steal victims' personal details using  phishing  emails or buying them on criminal forums. they then set up a bogus business in their name. after opening a business bank account they then apply for a bounce back loan through the same bank. the rules state the scheme should only apply to firms set up before 1 march 2020.   but we've seen successful applications for companies that were created as late as june. we met a fraud investigator who has successfully infiltrated a criminal gang online. his work is highly sensitive so he asked to remain anonymous. he showed us the details of multiple people who had their personal details stolen, of businesses set up in their names and bounce back loans applied for. typically the criminals apply for the maximum of £50,000. the fraud investigator told us "it seems to be free money for the scammers". "there are hundreds, possibly thousands of people involved, engaged in this. it's going to cost us billions," he said. we also obtained data from companies house that indicates a sharp increase in the registration of new companies after the bbls was announced.  in early march registrations were running at 15,602 per week. after lockdown that figure halved to 7,571 per week.  chancellor rishi sunak announced the scheme on 27 april. registrations then rose to a record 21,616 by the end of june.  we don't know how many of those new companies might be fake - or how many actually applied for a loan. former detective and now civilian fraud and money laundering expert martin woods says the scheme was always vulnerable. "criminals identified it as a fabulous opportunity," he said, adding there were inadequate checks on the applications that were made. he added: "ultimately, it will be our children and grandchildren who pay for this." look-up tool: how many cases in your area?your questions: we answer your queriesthe r number: what it means and why it matterslocal lockdowns: what happens if you have one? acuris risk intelligence, which tracks online fraud, claims to have found more than 100 fake businesses set up by one criminal gang alone. its ceo joel lange said: "this type of fraud could have been prevented by conducting even the most basic checks by the banks." uk finance, which represents the banking sector, rejected the criticisms, saying: "lenders have a range of checks in place to detect and prevent fraudulent activity." that includes "a cross-industry initiative to check if duplicate applications have been made", it said. everything bbc news discovered is being made available to the authorities. a virgin media database containing the personal details of 900,000 people was left unsecured and accessible online for 10 months, the company has admitted. the information was accessed "on at least one occasion" by an unknown user. the database, which was for marketing purposes, contained phone numbers, home and email addresses. it did not include passwords or financial details. the breach was not due to a hack or a criminal attack, but because the database had been "incorrectly configured" by a member of staff not following the correct procedures, virgin media said.  the firm was alerted to the problem on friday after it was spotted by a security researcher at turgensec. the company said almost all of those affected were virgin customers with television or fixed-line telephone accounts, although the database also included some virgin mobile customers as well as potential customers referred by friends as part of a promotion. virgin media, which is owned by us cable group, liberty global, has informed the information commissioner's office as required, and launched a forensic investigation. four times more data breaches logged in ukrail station wi-fi provider exposed traveller datathousands lose broadband after workers break cable lutz schüler, chief executive of virgin media said: "we recently became aware that one of our marketing databases was incorrectly configured which allowed unauthorised access. we immediately solved the issue by shutting down access." "protecting our customers' data is a top priority and we sincerely apologise," he said. "based upon our investigation, virgin media does believe that the database was accessed on at least one occasion but we do not know the extent of the access or if any information was actually used," mr schuler said. virgin media said it would be emailing those affected on thursday, in order to warn them about the risks of  phishing , nuisance calls and identity theft. the message will include a reminder not to click on unknown links in emails and not to provide personal details to unverified callers. further advice was available on its website, it said.   the fact that virgin media's database hasn't been actively hacked is reassuring for customers, but while the details are light, it sounds like human error is to blame and that is rather embarrassing for a tech firm. ten months is a long time for all that data to have just been sitting there, waiting to be found.  and while no passwords or bank details were among it, there's an awful lot of contact information for a cyber-criminal to work with.  phishing  expeditions - when someone tries to get financial information out of a victim by pretending to be a company with a legitimate reason for contact - are not particularly sophisticated, but they are effective for those caught off-guard, and can be a lucrative source of income. it's unclear whether this was yet another case of unsecured data being stored on a cloud service that's easily searchable if you know how. there have been dozens of examples of this lately, including just this week a database of the personal details of people using train station wi-fi around the uk. virgin media has apologised and really, there's very little practical advice to offer in the light of this kind of breach, beyond the usual protocol of staying alert to any messages requesting personal information or access to any kind of finance.  a council has been hit by 400,000 spam emails in one week. hackers have targeted sunderland city council with  phishing  and spoofing emails, and at least one distributed  dos-attack  ( dos-attack ) attack. officers also experienced a "spray attack" where accounts were locked out after criminals repeatedly used common passwords to try to gain access. the attacks took place during a week in november and the council has said it will improve its it security. the council's it security breach was revealed in a scrutiny co-ordinating committee report, the local democracy reporting service said. last year, the local government association published a "cyber-stocktake" based on a questionnaire completed by councils. sunderland received green and amber ratings in several areas, but was labelled red in technology standards and compliance and detection. the council said it planned to improve its security by moving pcs to windows 10 and making sure default passwords were changed. it said that although measures were being taken, there was "no silver bullet that guarantees 100% protection". 'a catfish stole my online identity'footballers pay tribute after sick boy dieswatch: 'i go on night buses to help loneliness' cyber-thieves are creating an "invisible internet" to stop police spying on cyber-crime deals being done on the dark net, research suggests. instead of trading on marketplaces, criminals have turned to "gated" chat forums, invitation-only communities and  encryption  apps, say researchers.  the change could make it hard for law enforcement agencies to spot and trace attacks, they warn. they also found a large increase in attacks aimed at big companies. the study embedded undercover researchers into a wide variety of forums and gated chat forums on the dark net. the dark net is the part of the internet not accessible to search engines such as google, and for which people need a special browser to visit. the most well-known dark net is accessed via the tor browser. successful efforts by police to infiltrate dark net marketplaces as well as raids that saw many of them closed down, had pushed criminal hackers to adopt more secure ways of communicating, said dr mike mcguire, a criminologist from the university of surrey, who led the project. "it's not as vibrant as it once was because they know the feds are listening and that they will take down markets," he said. while criminal gangs were still active on those publicly accessible marketplaces, said dr mcguire, any conversations about targets and tactics were instantly moved to secure apps such as telegram or separate forums and chat rooms. "it's becoming like an invisible internet," he told the bbc. "that's going to be worrying for law enforcement." for the study, researchers posed as customers and quizzed hackers about the cost of a wide variety of cyber-attacks, they probed market rates for tailored  malware  attacks,  phishing  campaigns, industrial espionage and insider information. sample costs included: remote logins for corporate networks $2-$30 (£1.50-£24) targeted-threat  on company $4,500 targeted-threat  on individual $2,000 phishing  kits $40fake amazon receipts and invoices $52espionage and insider trading $1,000 - $15,000 the cyber-crime economy that had emerged on the dark net was a mirror to the legitimate industry, said ian pratt, co-founder of security firm bromium that sponsored the research.  the cyber-crime economy was diverse and sophisticated, he said, with many hacking gangs specialising in just one aspect of an attack, such as crafting  malware , writing convincing  phishing  emails or setting up sites to grab data from victims. it was also clear, he said, that the hackers could get access to almost any network they desired.  "it's not hard to get into corporate networks," he said, adding that the most successful method of winning access was via a well-crafted  phishing  campaign.  he said adverts and listings for attacks on enterprises had grown by 20% since 2016, suggesting corporates were becoming a lucrative target. a successful  phishing  attack gave hackers "instant deep access" said mr pratt, that they could then build on to either get at saleable data or to thoroughly compromise a target. the changing nature of the dark net underworld should prompt police to change the way they tackle cyber-crime, said dr mcguire. "law enforcement have a very focused and narrow perception and take down particular groups," he said. "but by taking out specific groups they are not making much of a dent in it." if one group disappeared or was broken up by police another would just move to fill in the gap, he added.  "it's like cutting the head off a hydra."  criminals netted $3.5bn (£2.7bn) from cyber-crimes reported to the fbi alone in 2019, according to the service's internet crime complaint centre (ic3). it received 467,361 complaints from individuals and businesses during the year and has had nearly five million since its inception in 2000.  phishing  and extortion remain the most popular ways of scamming people. it says techniques are becoming more sophisticated, making it harder for people to tell "real from fake". this is especially true of web and email addresses that are fooling people because they look increasingly legitimate. last year ic3 had 13,633 complaints from victims of so-called tech-support fraud, which involves a scammer phoning an individual and claiming there is a problem with their computer that needs immediate fixing.  losses amounted to more than $54m and complaints came from victims in 48 countries. the vast majority were over 60 years of age.  ransomware  - where hackers lock down computers and demand a payment to unlock them - netted more than $8.9m over the year, according to the group.  it urged members of the public to continue reporting crimes. "information reported to the ic3 plays a vital role in the fbi's ability to understand our cyber-adversaries and their motives, which, in turn, helps us to impose risks and consequences on those who break our laws and threaten our national security," said assistant director of the fbi's cyber division matt gorham. "it is through these efforts we hope to build a safer and more secure cyber-landscape." the ukrainian gas company at the centre of president donald trump's impeachment was successfully hacked by russian military agents in november, a us cybersecurity firm has said. area 1 security said it was not clear what the hackers were searching for when they hacked burisma holdings. democratic presidential contender joe biden's son hunter biden was previously on the board of the firm. burisma, the us government and russia's ministry of defence are yet to respond. area 1 linked the hack - a " phishing " attack - to russia's military intelligence unit known commonly as the gru. a timeline of the trump-ukraine storywhite house blocked ukraine aid just after trump callthree republican impeachment claims, fact-checked president trump was impeached in december over allegations that he improperly pressured ukraine's leader volodymyr zelensky to launch an investigation into burisma and its links to the bidens. the security firm also drew parallels between november's hack and another that was carried out against democrats in 2016, before the us presidential election.  in its eight-page report, california-based firm area 1 said the gru hackers behind the burisma breach are known by the alias "fancy bear" among cybersecurity researchers. the hackers used " phishing " emails that are designed to steal usernames and passwords, the california-based security firm said. in this case, burisma employees were sent what looked like internal company emails and fake websites that looked like the sign-in pages of burisma subsidiaries. using this tactic, the hackers managed to get into burisma's servers, it added. area 1 said it became aware of the hack after its email security scanning product found suspicious evidence online, including "decoy domains" for the fake websites. a source close to burisma told reuters news agency that the company's website had been subject to a number of break-in attempts over the past six months. burisma, a ukrainian energy firm, is at the heart of the impeachment proceedings against president trump. in a phone call in july 2019, president trump pushed for ukrainian president zelensky to announce an investigation into burisma and the bidens. specifically, mr trump wanted kyiv to look into a debunked theory that joe biden had previously tried to quash a probe of burisma in order to protect his son. president trump is now due to stand trial in the senate on two articles of impeachment - abuse of power and obstruction of congress. he denies any wrongdoing. the burisma hack "really is starting to parallel with what we saw in 2016", area 1 co-founder oren falkowitz told reuters. that year, hackers gained access to the democratic national committee (dnc) and to the campaign of president trump's then-electoral rival, hillary clinton. area 1 co-founders mr falkowitz and blake darche added: "the timing of the gru's campaign in relation to the 2020 us elections raises the specter that this is an early warning of what we have anticipated since the successful cyberattacks undertaken during the 2016 us elections." mr darche also told reuters that they were "100% certain" that the gru was behind the hacking. the government is cracking down on misinformation about the coronavirus pandemic. a rapid response unit within the cabinet office is working with social media firms to remove fake news and harmful content. culture secretary oliver dowden said action was needed "to stem the spread of falsehoods and rumours, which could cost lives". the specialist unit is dealing with as many as 10 incidents each day. it will try to tackle a range of issues online, such as fake "experts" issuing false medical information and criminals running  phishing  scams. last tuesday, for example, hours after the government started sending texts urging people to stay at home, several fake versions of the message began circulating on social media. one of them told people they had been fined for breaking the rules. mr dowden added: "we need people to follow expert medical advice and stay at home, protect the nhs and save lives.  "it is vital that this message hits home and that misinformation and disinformation which undermines it is knocked down quickly." the government is also re-launching a campaign called "don't feed the beast", urging the public to think carefully about what they share online. it comes as the former chairman of the digital, culture, media and sport select committee called for knowingly sharing misinformation about covid-19 to be made an offence. conservative mp damian collins said: "the information contagion around covid-19 is so dangerous, because there is so much that people don't know and so much happening all the time, that it is very easy for false rumours to take hold and spread." mr collins is also launching an online service where members of the public can post screenshots of coronavirus-related information they have been sent. social media companies have also announced measures to try to fight the spread of misinformation about the computer-virus .  twitter has said it will remove content that promotes unverified claims. last week, facebook, google, microsoft and reddit also said they would work with governments on the issue and to help those in self-isolation. a  ransomware  attack on a us natural gas facility meant a pipeline had to be shut down for two days, the us department of homeland security (dhs) has said. however, it did not name the facility or say when the attack happened. a malicious link sent to staff at the facility eventually caused the shutdown "of the entire pipeline asset". it was so severe in part because the organisation was not prepared for such an attack, the dhs statement said. the incident was detailed in a security alert., which revealed it to be a "spear- phishing " attack, in which individuals are sent fraudulent but believable scam messages. that let the attacker into the company's it network. often, the "operational network" which runs computers in the factory is separated from the office it - but not in this case, meaning the  ransomware  infection was allowed to spread.  ransomware  typically  encryption  files on a victim's computer and demands payment before offering to unlock them again - although there is no guarantee that the cyber-criminals who develop such software will be true to their word. a spate of  ransomware  attacks has troubled various us organisations recently - from local authorities to hospitals to a maritime base. in the case of the natural gas facility, only one office was targeted, but others in different geographic locations were forced to close down, too. the dhs said the affected organisation had not properly prepared for a cyber-attack of this kind - with its emergency plans being focused on all sorts of physical attacks instead. "consequently, emergency response exercises also failed to provide employees with decision-making experience in dealing with cyber-attacks," the department added. all organisations, regardless of what sector they are in, should prepare for the possibility of a  ransomware  attack, said carl wearn, head of e-crime at cloud email firm mimecast. businesses could do this "by implementing offline back-ups with a fall-back email and archiving facility, as a minimum" he said. up to 60% of emergency pandemic loans made under the bounce back scheme may never be repaid, a report by the government's spending watchdog says.  the national audit office (nao) said taxpayers could lose as much as £26bn, from fraud, organised crime or default. the lending scheme carried lighter checks than others and was aimed at small businesses unable to access other pandemic funding support. a recent bbc investigation revealed how fraudsters were using the loan system.  many of those affected will have no idea their names have been used until repayment letters begin arriving in early summer. one of the victims spoken to by the bbc, mark telling, said he was worried "to death" to discover a company set up in his name by a criminal had "borrowed" £50,000 from the bail-out scheme.  the bbc also spoke to sue burden, who had also found her identity had been stolen to set up a bogus company to access the scheme. she said she had gone "from tears to anger... now i'm going to be scared to do anything". the bbc reported last week that the government was warned back in may that the scheme was at "very high risk of fraud" from "organised crime". the government said it has tried to minimise fraud through lenders' background checks.  the scheme provides firms with 100% government-backed finance worth up to £50,000. demand has been greater than anticipated, and the total value of these loans is now expected to be £38bn-£48bn, up from an estimate of £18bn-£26bn. they do not have to be paid off for 10 years and offer a range of flexible payment options.  the  loan scheme is an extension of earlier offers which some businesses complained they could not access as the lending criteria was too strict.  the nao report warned that the speed with which the scheme was rolled out heightened the fraud risk. it took a month to ensure businesses could not receive more than one loan.  'my name was used to steal a government covid loan'arrest over £110k covid small business loan frauduk banks get 100,000 loan applications on first day the public accounts committee said it was the government's largest and most risky business support scheme.  it says it will not assess the value-for-money of the scheme, as the loans will not start being paid back until may next year.  the nao analysis said losses from the scheme are likely to reach "significantly above" normal estimates for public-sector fraud of 0.5% to 5%.  the report also said the uk's five biggest banks will make nearly £1bn between them from the scheme. meg hillier, chair of the public accounts committee, said the loans had been a vital lifeline for many businesses.  but she added that "the government estimates that up to 60% of the loans could turn bad - this would be a truly eye-watering loss of public money".  "the bounce back loan scheme got money into the hands of small businesses quickly, and will have stopped some from going under. "but the scheme's hasty launch means criminals may have helped themselves to billions of pounds at the taxpayer's expense. "sadly, many firms won't be able to repay their loans and the banks will be quick to wash their hands of the problem.  today's report confirms what many people had suspected.   in may, the government had to get money to small businesses as quickly as possible, before tens of thousands of them went bust.   but to do that, they had to make compromises on credit and fraud checks.  this opened the doors to a whole range of problems - including fraud by organised criminal gangs.   we've found evidence of more than 100 bogus firms set up by scammers to make fraudulent applications - getting the maximum £50,000 each time.   they've used the stolen, personal details of innocent victims to set up the fake companies - victims who won't know anything about it until the letters demanding repayment start arriving through their doors next summer.  how it's done:  gangs steal victims' personal details using  phishing  emails or buying them on criminal forums. they then set up a bogus business in their name.after opening a business bank account they then apply for a bounce back loan through the same bank. the taxpayer is in the same position - waiting to find out how much the scheme will ultimately cost us.  the warning from the national audit office is clear - it has the potential to be "very high". sue and dave burden, from the south of england, were shocked to find that sue's identity had been stolen to set up a company and claim a bounce back loan.  "i've gone from tears to anger," she told the bbc. "now i'm going to be scared to do anything." the state-owned british business bank (bbb), which supervises the bounce back loan scheme, twice raised concerns, firstly in may.  the bbb expects it will pay out £1.07bn in interest payments to the high street lenders that provided the cash.  most of this will go to uk's five biggest banks, barclays, hsbc, lloyds, natwest and santander, which provided £31.3bn of funding. according to latest treasury figures, there have been 1.55 million applications for the loans, with 1.26 million approvals. "we targeted this support to help those who need it most as quickly as possible and we won't apologise for this," a government spokesperson said. "we've looked to minimise fraud - with lenders implementing a range of protections including anti-money laundering and customer checks, as well as transaction monitoring controls.  "any fraudulent applications can be criminally prosecuted for which penalties include imprisonment or a fine or both." have you been affected by the issues raised in this story? share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also get in touch in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy if you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the bbc website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include your name, age and location with any submission.  this week, after seven years of building up thousands of instagram followers, a small company on the south coast of england found its account had been hacked. the english stamp company tried to let instagram know. but in a response that evening, the social media giant said the account had been permanently deleted. "we're sorry for any inconvenience this causes," instagram, which is owned by facebook, said in the automated message. "it's gutting, the fact that it's the last seven years of work, and it's disappointing that instagram appears unwilling to help," says bella dorey, 27, one of three people in the firm who manage the account. the company, which makes rubber stamps, was founded in 1992 by bella's father and mother, jon and sasha, and has seven employees. it had built up nearly 29,000 followers on its instagram account, and was hoping to get to 30,000 by christmas. it uses instagram as its main marketing tool, and was relying on the social media platform to boost christmas sales, especially as coronavirus has put a stop to the usual exhibitions the company uses to showcase its wares. travelex strikes rescue deal but 1,300 uk jobs goblackbaud hack: universities lose data to  ransomware  attack "we are going to suffer a loss financially," says bella. "how do you put a value on more than 28,000 followers?" on tuesday the company got a message from instagram saying there had been an unusual login to its account from a computer in huddersfield. the bbc verified with a computer security expert that this message was genuine. bella and a colleague immediately tried to get in contact with instagram but just four minutes later, they got an email from the hackers, who called themselves "carlo minhift". "good day! we apologize for the inconvenience. your account has been temporarily blocked," the email said. the hackers said they would wait two hours, then start "clearing" the account by deleting photos if bella and her colleagues did not respond. the next day, the hackers revealed their intention had been to extort money from the small firm. but they were too late, instagram had already deleted the account. "we didn't want to ruin your account, but you don't respond to us. we realized that you will not pay us. no, not really. we apologize for not being convenient, but we unfortunately start clearing the account after 30 minutes and sell it. see you later," the hackers said. attacks on instagram users, while rarer than other forms of cyber attack, are becoming increasingly common as a growing number of influencers and companies market themselves on the platform, according to professor alan woodward, a cyber security expert at the university of surrey. he said the decision of the english stamp company not to engage with the hackers was "brave" but he said it was the right one. "you shouldn't pay the ransom," he said. "there's no guarantee you'll get the account back, the money will be used to fund further crime, and you'll just paint a big target on your back as a 'payer'." quite a lot of attacks of this nature rely on so-called  phishing  emails which try to trick users into revealing sensitive information, like usernames and passwords, by posing as a reputable website. "credential stuffing" is another ploy used by hackers who use personal data, harvested elsewhere, to gain unauthorised access to accounts the best way to deal with an instagram attack is to try to pre-empt it by beefing up your security beforehand, professor woodward said. make sure passwords are strong, and don't reuse them across sites, he added. instagram offers two-factor authentication by sending a code to your phone. people can check whether their usernames or passwords have been breached through a website called haveibeenpwned.com, which is run by troy hunt, a microsoft security expert. facebook says instagram is working with the english stamp company to try to recover their account as soon as possible. "businesses are an important part of our community and we take their safety and security seriously," the company said. "we notify people if we see any unauthorised changes to an account and in the few instances hacking occurs, people can recover accounts through the app and website." has your business instagram account been hacked? what was the impact on your firm? email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also contact us in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy fraudsters have stolen thousands of pounds from currys pc world customers after hijacking the retailer's ebay account. criminals were able to change payment details on a number of ebay listings, including for the iphone 11. this enabled them to siphon money from unwitting customers who paid for goods via a paypal account. currys pc world, ebay and paypal said all affected customers would be refunded. a spokesman for dixons carphone, which owns currys pc world, said it was "disappointed that this has happened" and would work with ebay "to investigate what has taken place". the spokesman added: "while we don't host this website, we are providing affected customers with guidance on how to obtain a refund from paypal." a spokesman for ebay said: "the issue was resolved quickly and customers can continue to shop with full confidence." paypal said it was working to reverse any affected transactions. a spokesman said: "if a customer has not seen their money refunded then they may need to raise an 'item not received' case via their paypal account." paypal enables users to send and receive money using just an email address. many shoppers use it to pay for items on ebay. scammers stole from unwitting customers by setting up a fake paypal account. the fraudsters used an email address that looked almost identical to currys pc world's real account. after accessing the retailer's ebay account, they replaced the real email on listings with a fake one. shoppers who thought they were paying currys pc world for their goods were instead sending money to the fraudsters. the attack happened on the weekend of october 19-20. it affected around 600 customers and potentially cost hundreds of thousands of pounds.  refunds should appear in affected customers' accounts over the coming days. the company was also recently targeted by a separate  phishing  attack, according to mail online, in which a fake ebay login page attempted to collect people's details. the currys pc world website is unaffected. cyber security expert graham cluley said the scam - known as a homograph attack - exploits the close similarity between two different characters or letters. he said: "for instance, a lower case "l" for lima looks very much like an upper case "i" for india in many fonts. "for years, scammers have been duping unsuspecting internet users into clicking on dangerous links by using this simple technique and, by the sound of things, are fooling users into paying the wrong paypal accounts too." mr cluley said the best way for people to stop scammers was to protect their accounts with two-factor authentication, which adds an extra layer of protection. "you can also run a password manager which stores your passwords securely and protects against  phishing  attacks. and keep a close eye on your accounts for unusual transactions," he said. a russian hacking group is launching  ransomware  attacks against a number of us companies, targeting employees who are working from home due to covid-19. evil corp hackers have tried to access at least 31 organisations' networks in order to cripple systems and demand millions of dollars in ransom. the group's two alleged leaders were indicted by the us justice department in december 2019. there are concerns that us voting systems could also be targeted. last year, us authorities filed charges against evil corp's alleged leaders maksim yakubets and igor turashev, accusing them of using  malware  to steal millions of dollars from groups including schools and religious organisations in over 40 countries. officials announced a $5m reward for information leading to their arrest, which they said was the largest amount ever offered for a cyber criminal. both men are still at large.  the threat comes as the majority of americans have been working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic -  62% according to a gallup poll. the us presidential election is also just months away, and federal and local officials have been working to put measures in place to protect voter records as well as manage safe voting practices amid the pandemic. symantec corporation, a firm that monitors corporate and government networks released a notice warning of the threat it identified on thursday night. the attacks used what symantec described as a relatively new type of  ransomware  called wastedlocker, which has been attributed to evil corp.  ransomware  are  computer-virus es that threaten to delete files unless the ransom is paid. the wastedlocker  ransomware  computer-virus  demands ransoms of $500,000 to $1m to unlock computer files it seizes.  symantec said the "vast majority of targets are major corporations, including many household names", and eight targets were fortune 500 companies. all are us-owned but one, which is a us-based subsidiary. most targeted companies were in the manufacturing, information technology and media sectors.  symantec said the hackers had breached the networks of these companies and were "laying the groundwork" for future  ransomware  attacks that would let them block access to data and demand millions of dollars. symantec technical director eric chien told the new york times the hackers take advantage of employees now using virtual private networks (vpns) to access work systems. they use vpns to identify which company a user works for, and then infect the user's computer when they visit a public or commercial site. when the user next connects to their employer's system, the hackers can attack. there have been a number of recent cyber-attacks on local governments across the us. cities and towns in louisiana, oregon, maryland, georgia, texas and florida were hit by  ransomware  attacks last year.  the department of homeland security is looking into safeguarding voter registration databases ahead of november 3's general election. in february, the agency's head of cyber-security said this was a key election security concern. these attacks by foreign cyber-criminals are far from a new threat. during the impeachment inquiry last year, former white house security adviser and russia expert fiona hill testified that "russia's security services and their proxies have geared up to repeat their interference in the 2020 election". in 2018, the justice department charged 12 russian intelligence officers with hacking democratic officials in the 2016 us elections, using spear  phishing  emails and  malware .  the hackers also stole data on half a million voters from a state election board site. moscow has said there is no evidence linking the 12 to military intelligence or hacking. hackers targeted mobile phone networks around the world to snoop on specific users, according to a report. the level of access they gained to the networks meant they could have shut them down had they wanted to. us-israeli security firm cybereason concluded "with a high level of certainty" that the hackers were based in china, probably sponsored by the government. the attack - dubbed operation softcell - began in 2017. cybereason spotted the attacks in 2018 and helped one telecoms provider through four more over the next six months. it has now briefed more than a dozen others. none of the targeted firms or people has been named but, according to the report, the hackers collected the call records and geo-location of various individuals from a selection of countries, including those in europe, the middle east and asia. the security firm identified changes in the pattern of attack and new activity every three or four months. the hackers gained entry to networks via a flaw in a web server product. cybereason said the tools and techniques bore the hallmarks of chinese hacking group advanced-persistent-threat 10, which is widely believed to operate on behalf of the chinese government. security expert at the university of surrey,  prof alan woodward said the scale and audacity of the attacks was "breathtaking". "the hackers used  phishing  attacks to get privileged access to networks and could potentially have closed them down. "they could see who called whom, when, and also seem to have been able to track people's movements." while us networks do not seem to be affected by this wave of attacks, they remain vulnerable and could have been targeted with different tools, said prof woodward. while there is no suggestion that chinese firms played any part in the attacks, it will add "grist to the mill" for politicians calling for mobile operators to distance themselves from firms like huawei, he added. in 2018, 30% of telecoms firms reported that sensitive customer data had been stolen in attacks. google is beefing up the way it checks if any of the apps uploaded to its play store are malicious. all new apps will be scanned by  malware -spotting tools from three cyber-security companies as well as google's own in-house system. google said it needed help because the number of apps being uploaded was too large for it to handle alone. nasty play apps can hit lots of people. malicious code found in june was in apps downloaded 400 million times. security companies zimperium, eset and lookout will work together on what google has called the app defense alliance. the four partners will set up a combined scanning system that will scrutinise apps as they pass through google's pipeline on the way to being offered to android users via the play store. working from massive databases of known  malware , behavioural clues and machine-learning models of novel threats the scanners will look for  spyware s,  spyware ,  ransomware , banking  malware  and  phishing  attacks. "on the  malware  side, we haven't really had a way to scale as much as we've wanted to scale," dave kleidermacher, google's vice-president of android security, told wired magazine. mr kleidermacher added there were so many apps being developed, even making a "1% incremental improvement" could make a difference.  the scanning system is the latest in a series of steps google has taken in its bid to do a better job of policing the play store.  in april, it announced more rigorous checks for developers to root out "bad faith" coders who produced and uploaded malicious or fraudulent apps. a leading medical-research institution working on a cure for covid-19 has admitted it paid hackers a $1.14m (£910,000) ransom after a covert negotiation witnessed by bbc news. the netwalker criminal gang attacked university of california san francisco (ucsf) on 1 june. it staff unplugged computers in a race to stop the  malware  spreading. and an anonymous tip-off enabled bbc news to follow the ransom negotiations in a live chat on the dark web. cyber-security experts say these sorts of negotiations are now happening all over the world - sometimes for even larger sums - against the advice of law-enforcement agencies, including the fbi, europol and the uk's national cyber security centre.  netwalker alone has been linked to at least two other  ransomware  attacks on universities in the past two months. at first glance, its dark-web homepage looks like a standard customer-service website, with a frequently asked questions (faq) tab, an offer of a "free" sample of its software and a live-chat option.  but there is also a countdown timer ticking down to a time when the hackers either double the price of their ransom, or delete the data they have scrambled with  malware . instructed to log in - either by email or a ransom note left on hacked computer screens - ucsf was met with the following message, posted on 5 june. six hours later, the university asked for more time and for details of the hack to be removed from netwalker's public blog. noting ucsf made billions a year, the hackers then demanded $3m but the ucsf representative, who may be an external specialist negotiator, explained the coronavirus pandemic had been "financially devastating" for the university and begged them to accept $780,000.   after a day of back-and-forth negotiations, ucsf said it had pulled together all available money and could pay $1.02m - but the criminals refused to go below $1.5m. hours later, the university came back with details of how it had procured more money and a final offer of $1,140,895.  and the next day, 116.4 bitcoins were transferred to netwalker's electronic wallets and the decryption software sent to ucsf.    ucsf is now assisting the fbi with its investigations, while working to restore all affected systems. it told bbc news: "the data that was  encryption  is important to some of the academic work we pursue as a university serving the public good. "we therefore made the difficult decision to pay some portion of the ransom, approximately $1.14 million, to the individuals behind the  malware  attack in exchange for a tool to unlock the  encryption  data and the return of the data they obtained. "it would be a mistake to assume that all of the statements and claims made in the negotiations are factually accurate." but jan op gen oorth, from europol, which runs a project called no more ransom, said: "victims should not pay the ransom, as this finances criminals and encourages them to continue their illegal activities.  "instead, they should report it to the police so law enforcement can disrupt the criminal enterprise." brett callow, a threat analyst at cyber-security company emsisoft, said: "organisations in this situation are without a good option. "even if they pay the demand, they'll simply receive a pinky-promise that the stolen data will be deleted.  "but why would a ruthless criminal enterprise delete data that it may be able to further monetise at a later date?" most  ransomware  attacks begin with a booby-trapped emaii and research suggests criminal gangs are increasingly using tools that can gain access to systems via a single download. in the first week of this month alone, proofpoint's cyber-security analysts say they saw more than one million emails with using a variety of  phishing  lures, including fake covid-19 test results, sent to organisations in the us, france, germany, greece, and italy.  organisations are encouraged to regularly back-up their data offline. but proofpoint's ryan kalember said: "universities can be challenging environments to secure for it administrators. "the constantly changing student population, combined with a culture of openness and information-sharing, can conflict with the rules and controls often needed to effectively protect the users and systems from attack." holiday camp firm butlin's says up to 34,000 guests at its resorts may have had their personal information stolen by hackers. the company says the data in question included names, home addresses, contact details and holiday arrival dates. managing director dermot king apologised for the incident and said no financial details had been compromised. butlin's has set up a "dedicated team" to contact guests who may have been affected. "butlin's take the security of our guest data very seriously and have improved a number of our security processes," said mr king. "i would like to apologise for any upset or inconvenience this incident might cause." the firm has published a dedicated web page with some details about the breach. a spokesman for butlin's confirmed that the hack took place within the last 72 hours and was a  phishing  attack. however, butlin's does not currently know if information on all 34,000 guests was taken. "we cannot be definitive at the moment with regard to whether all data was hacked," the spokesman told the bbc. butlin's said it has not yet found evidence of fraudulent activity related to the incident. "this breach was the result of a  phishing  email, demonstrating the crucial need to train staff so they can recognise increasingly sophisticated communications that purport to be genuine," said jocelyn paulley at law firm gowling wlg. ms paulley added that human error was the "greatest single point of weakness" in organisations' security. a spokeswoman for the information commissioner's office said: "butlins has made us aware of an incident and we will be making enquiries." there are three butlin's holiday camp sites - skegness in lincolnshire, bognor regis in west sussex and minehead in somerset. hundreds of staff at mobile phone company sure have had their bank details and other personal data stolen in a "targeted"  phishing  attack.  current and former employees working for the telecoms firm on the isle of man, guernsey and jersey have been affected. the data includes names, addresses, account numbers and sort codes. a spokesman said "fewer than 400" people were affected but no existing customers' data had been accessed. the company is one of the main mobile and broadband providers on the islands. the firm said it was contacting those affected, which includes "suppliers", urging them to be "extra vigilant" and working with the islands' authorities. the attack is thought to have come in via a staff email account, which has since been shut down."human error" was partly to blame, the company said. a spokesman said sure could not confirm any information about "the location or individual" whose account was targeted, for "confidentiality and security purposes".  sure has apologised and said it was "constantly reviewing" its training programmes. the isle of man information commissioner's office said it had been informed of the attack and an investigation had been launched. an attempt to defraud thousands of people using a bogus email from a uk airport was one of a range of cyber-attacks prevented last year. the scam used a fake gov.uk address, but the messages were prevented from ever reaching their intended recipients. the details were revealed by gchq's national cyber security centre in an annual report. in all, ncsc disclosed it had stopped 140,000 separate  phishing  attacks. this refers to the attempted online theft of bank details and other sensitive information by impersonating a trustworthy person or organisation. in addition, the agency said it had taken down 190,000 fraudulent sites.  this often happened quickly. the centre said that 64% of illegal sites were offline within 24 hours of being discovered and 99.3% eventually went dark. this is the second time ncsc has published a progress report for its active cyber defence programme. the effort - which uses a mix of automated processes to defeat internet-based threats to the uk - was launched in late-2016. one focus is to take down  malware  and  phishing  sites. this is normally done by finding out who hosts the websites involved and then telling them that their clients are running a criminal operation. most providers take down the pages quickly, although there are some exceptions.   ncsc has not shared the name of the airport the fraudsters attempted to impersonate last august. but it did say that the failed scheme involved sending 200,000 emails to members of the public asking them to pay a fee in order to receive a larger refund.  had the intended victims paid the sum, they would have got nothing in return. uk cyber-security efforts criticised by audit officeuk cyber-centre thwarts hostile hackersuk moves to 'active cyber-defence' the security centre also took the criminals' real email address offline to ensure they could not receive any replies. another success was an apparent reduction in the number of attacks in which fraudsters had posed as hm revenue and customs. scammers often pretend to offer individuals tax refunds if victims provide bank accounts and a facilitation payment.   at the start of january 2016, hmrc was the 16th most popular disguise used in  phishing  emails. by the end of 2019, a series of new measures had reduced its global ranking to 146th. efforts were also made to prevent 1.4 million employees in the public sector from visiting malicious sites.  this involved a service known as pdns (protective domain name system), which effectively refuses to query the internet's address book when appropriate. so, for example, if a user typed in a web address whose domain name had previously been linked to illegal activity -  eg dodgysite.com - the service would refuse to provide the related internet protocol address - eg 216.58.111.789 - required to connect to its computer servers. ncsc said that pdns had handled a total of 68.7 billion queries in 2018, of which it had blocked 57.4 million.  this included frustrating 450,000 queries related to  ransomware  - the  malware  that took down parts of the nhs in 2018. a further 230,000 queries were obstructed relating to another piece of  malware  called badrabbit. the system even found evidence of attempts to spread the conficker worm, which was released as far back as 2008. ncsc added that bt has been working on its own version of pdns, and is blocking an average of 110 million malicious connections per month. other incidents flagged by the report included: a primary school being involved in the spread of a large-scale  malware  infection because its anti-virus system was not workingan unnamed public sector organisation that deals with sensitive information getting breached because its employees had downloaded unauthorised softwareat least 318 public sector networks still routinely using windows xp despite microsoft having pulled nearly all support for the operating system in 2014 in the future, the ncsc said it wanted to do more to map the uk's use of the internet, in a piece of research it calls the internet weather centre.  the aim is to understand questions like what are the most commonly used cloud services, and then use that knowledge to understand related vulnerabilities.  it also wants to do more work to allow public sector users to scan and check how their infrastructure is exposed to the net to spot potential risks. the us department of justice has charged 12 russian intelligence officers with hacking democratic officials in the 2016 us elections. deputy attorney general rod rosenstein said the dozen accused used spear  phishing  emails and  malware . he said the hackers also stole data on half a million voters from a state election board website. the kremlin said there was no evidence linking the 12 to military intelligence or hacking. the claims were "an old duck" and a "heap of conspiracy schemes", said moscow's foreign ministry in a statement. friday's indictment was the first by us officials to directly charge russia's government with meddling in the us vote two years ago. four intriguing lines in mueller chargeswho's who in russia-trump drama? the 11-count indictment names the russians defendants, alleging they began cyber-attacks in march 2016 on the email accounts of staff for hillary clinton's presidential campaign. mr rosenstein said the defendants corresponded with several americans during the alleged conspiracy, but added there is no allegation that any us citizen committed a crime. the deputy attorney general said the conspirators used fictitious online personas, including "dcleaks" and "guccifer 2.0", to release thousands of stolen emails beginning in june 2016. they also plotted to hack into the computers of state boards of elections, secretaries of state, and voter software, according to the indictment. mr rosenstein said: "we know that the goal of the conspirators was to have an impact on the election." the deputy attorney general said all 12 defendants were in the russian intelligence service, the gru. a guide to us legaleseall you need to know about mueller inquiry the dnc leak showed that top democrats preferred mrs clinton for the presidential nomination, which confirmed the worst fears among supporters of her liberal challenger, bernie sanders. clinton campaign manager john podesta's emails were also hacked, which contained details of infighting and aides' disparaging remarks about mrs clinton. 18 revelations from wikileaks emailswhy us fears russia is hacking election analysis by anthony zurcher, bbc news if the russian military had dropped a bomb on the headquarters of a us political party, it would be an act of war. same if it had launched a missile at the home of the chair of a us presidential campaign.  this isn't what happened, of course, but make no mistake, what the us department of justice is alleging - a cyber-attack by russian military officers against a us political party and its leaders - is, or at least should be, equally inflammatory. the wreckage of what robert mueller's team says were russian strikes on the us can be measured in damaged reputations and disrupted politics.  deputy attorney general rod rosenstein denies that friday's announcement had anything to do with donald trump's upcoming meeting with vladimir putin - but they will cast a shadow over the summit nevertheless.  after days of sharply criticising us allies, the world will closely watch how the president handles allegations of "virtual" warfare against the us when he sits down with the man whose military is accused of being behind it all. president donald trump was briefed about the indictments earlier in the week. he is currently in the uk, from where he once again dismissed the investigation as a "rigged witch hunt".  during a joint news conference with british prime minister theresa may on friday, mr trump also said the russia collusion allegations dogging his presidency were "pure stupidity". next week he will meet with russian president vladimir putin at a summit in helsinki, finland. senate democratic leader chuck schumer has urged the president to cancel that meeting, in light of the indictment. special counsel robert mueller is investigating us intelligence findings that russians conspired to tilt the election in mr trump's favour, and whether any of his campaign aides colluded. as of friday, the inquiry has indicted 32 people - mostly russian nationals in absentia - as well as three companies and four former trump advisers. none of the charges allege trump advisers colluded with russia to interfere with the presidential campaign. former national security adviser michael flynn and george papadopoulos, a former foreign policy adviser, have pleaded guilty to making false statements about their contacts with russians. former trump campaign chairman paul manafort and his deputy rick gates were charged with money laundering relating to their political consultancy work in ukraine. cyber-criminals are abusing multilingual character sets to trick people into visiting  phishing  websites. the non-english characters allow scammers to create "lookalike" sites with domain names almost indistinguishable from legitimate ones. farsight security found scam sites posing as banks and loan advisers. another firm saw children's brands such as lego and haribo being abused. smartphones screens put users at risk as they make lookalikes hard to spot. the farsight security report looked at more than 100 million domain names that use non-english character sets - introduced to make the net more familiar and usable for non-english speaking nations - and found about 27% that were unique, indicating the prevalent usage of internationalized domain names. it also uncovered more than 8,000 international domain name homographs, or lookalike domain names, characters, representing or containing a top global brand name. farsight founder paul vixie, who wrote much of the software underpinning the net's domain names  told the bbc: "any lower case letter can be represented by as many as 40 different variations."   and many internationalised versions added just a tiny fleck or mark that was not easy to see. eldar tuvey, founder and head of security company wandera, said it had also seen an upsurge in  phishing  domains using different ways of forming characters.  in particular, it had seen an almost doubling of the number of scam domains created using an encoding system called punycode over the past few months.  and  phishing  gangs were using messages sent via mobile apps to tempt people into clicking on the similar-looking links. "they are targeting specific groups," mr tuvey said.  and research had established people were three times more likely to fall for a  phishing  scam presented on their phone. "to phish someone, you just have to fool them once," mr tuvey said. "tricking them into installing  malware  is much more work." fraudsters are using the pandemic as an excuse to trick people out of their cash, according to british banks. uk finance has warned that scamsters are preying on consumers' financial fears and has named ten covid-19 scams the public should be wary of. "criminals are impersonating trusted organisations like the nhs or hmrc to trick people," the trade body said. people should stay alert to avoid falling for the sophisticated schemes, it said. "during this pandemic we have seen criminals using sophisticated methods to callously exploit people's financial concerns to trick them into giving away their money or information," said katy worobec, managing director of economic crime at uk finance. local councils have recorded a 40% increase in reported scams since the start of lockdown, while citizens advice reckons one in three people have been targeted by a covid scammer. taxpayers to lose billions to computer-virus  fraud - reportscam warning over nhs test and tracefake lockdown fines among scams targeting public some scams manipulate their victims by urging people to invest and "take advantage of the financial downturn".  others impersonate well-known subscription services to trick people to part with their cash and personal information. some criminals even pose as representatives from the nhs test and trace service to fool people into giving away their personal details. "we urge people to follow the advice of the take five to stop fraud campaign to keep their money and personal information safe from fraudsters," said ms worobec. the campaign encourages people to be suspicious of any unsolicited contact and "stop, challenge and protect" when they receive any messages out of the blue. covid-19 financial support scams 1. fake government emails, which look like they are from government departments offering grants of up to £7,500. the emails contain links which steal personal and financial information. 2. scam emails offering access to "covid-19 relief funds", which encourage victims to fill in a form and hand over their personal information. 3. official-looking emails offering a "council tax reduction". the emails contain links that lead to a fake government website, which harvests personal and financial information. 4. benefit recipients are offered help in applying for universal credit, but fraudsters grab some of the payment as an advance for their "services". health scams 5.  phishing  emails claiming that the recipient has been in contact with someone diagnosed with covid-19. they lead to fake websites that are used to steal personal and financial information or infect devices with  malware . 6. fake adverts for non-existent coronavirus-related products, such as hand sanitizer and face masks, which simply take the victim's cash and send them nothing. lockdown scams 7. fake emails and texts claiming to be from tv licensing, telling people they are eligible for six months for free because of the pandemic. victims are told there has been a problem with their direct debit and are asked to click on a link that takes them to a fake website, which steals their personal and financial information. 8. emails asking people to update their tv subscription services payment details by clicking on a link which is then used to steal credit card information. 9. fake profiles on social media sites are used to manipulate victims into handing over their money. criminals will often use the identities of real people to strike up conversation with their targets.  10. fake investment opportunities are advertised on social media sites, encouraging victims to "take advantage of the financial downturn". bitcoin platforms are using emails and adverts on social media platforms to encourage unsuspecting victims to put money into fake companies using fake websites. the local government association (lga) also warned about fake coronavirus test kits and hand sanitizers, but said scamsters are also flogging medical products claiming to treat or prevent covid-19. it said local councils have also heard of messages about how to claim school meals funding and government grants, and criminals cold-calling care home residents offering to do shopping errands. one scam involves a message sent by text or email stating that the recipient has been fined £60 for leaving their home more than once a day, the lga warned. links in these messages connect to websites that steal a victim's personal information or hack into their computer or phone. "people need to be cautious. if something doesn't seem right or sounds too good to be true, don't hesitate to end a phone call, bin a letter, delete an email or shut the door," an lga spokesperson said. citizens advice warned that the most vulnerable people are often at greater risk of being contacted by a scammer. dame gillian guy, chief executive of citizens advice, said: "while so many people have pulled together to help and support each other through the challenges of coronavirus, opportunistic scammers have instead chosen to prey on unsuspecting victims. "we've had nearly a quarter of a million views of our web pages on scams during this pandemic and we're urging everyone to only use trusted sources of information and be on the lookout for signs of a potential scam." the charity's research showed almost half those with a disability or long-term illness had been targeted, while half of those with an increased risk of covid-19 or those shielding had been too. more than half of those who have lost personal income due to the computer-virus  had also been contacted. a customer database left unsecured online by virgin media contained details linking some customers to pornography and explicit websites. the researchers who first discovered the database told the bbc that it contained more information than virgin media suggested. such details could be used by cyber-criminals to extort victims. virgin media told the bbc only a small number of customers had these sensitive details in the database. the uk telecoms company revealed on thursday that one of its "marketing databases" containing details of 900,000 people was open to the internet and had been accessed "on at least one occasion" by an unknown user. on friday, it confirmed that the database contained details of about 1,100 customers who had used an online form to ask for a particular website to be blocked or unblocked.  it said it was in the process of contacting customers again about specific data that may have been stolen. when it first confirmed the data breach on thursday, virgin media warned the public that the database contained phone numbers, home addresses and emails. however, researchers at cyber-security firm turgensec - which found the database - said it contained more intimate details. "stating to their customers that there was only a breach of 'limited contact information' is from our perspective understating the matter potentially to the point of being disingenuous," one researcher told the bbc. "these highly sensitive details could be used by cyber-criminals to boost the chances of extorting money from victims." virgin media said the database did not "provide information as to what, if anything, was viewed" by affected customers. the company said almost all of those affected were virgin customers with television or fixed-line telephone accounts, although the database also included some virgin mobile customers as well as potential customers referred by friends as part of a promotion. it added that all individuals had been given details on how to contact the company for support and advice.  a representative of turgensec said virgin media's security had been far from adequate.  "the information was in plain text and un encryption , which meant anyone browsing the internet could clearly view and potentially download all of this data without needing any specialised equipment, tools, or hacking techniques," they told the bbc. virgin media, which is owned by us cable group liberty global, said it took security very seriously. it said it had informed the information commissioner's office (ico) of the data breach, as required.  a spokeswoman for the ico said it was investigating, and added: "people have the right to expect that organisations will handle their personal information securely and responsibly. when that doesn't happen, we advise people who may have been affected by data breaches to be vigilant when checking their financial records." virgin media said it would be emailing those affected, in order to warn them about the risks of  phishing , nuisance calls and identity theft. the message will include a reminder not to click on unknown links in emails, and not to provide personal details to unverified callers.  from caravans to kitchen tables, and podcast production to pregnancy, i've been speaking to many women in and around the technology sector about how they have adapted to the challenges of working during the coronavirus pandemic.  research suggests women across the world have shouldered more family and household responsibilities than men as the coronavirus pandemic continues, alongside their working lives. and they share their inspirations, frustrations but also their optimism. "i have a new business and a new life," says clare muscutt, who lost work, her relationship and her flatmate as lockdown hit.  this tuesday is ada lovelace day - an annual celebration of women working in the male-dominated science, technology, engineering and maths (stem) sectors. and, this year, it has a very different vibe. initially it felt like business was paused. confidence went.  i've now gone fully online. the tech is there to support it. and weirdly, i think i've benefited from it. i'm booking up months ahead.  the digital skills gap is costing the economy billions. people, and even entire corporations, are so far behind.  then, you add in the complication of covid. and you think everything is going to go backwards. but actually, digital is growing exponentially.  i'm dyslexic, so i have relied on tech to help get me where i am today. i'm a firm believer that tech can really enable anyone from anywhere to start their own business and make it fly. my husband is a neuroscientist. when covid first hit, he was redeployed to the front line. and we had no childcare.  there were days when i sat in front of my laptop and cried. getting the right balance is difficult. in september, my daughter started school. in the future, when she becomes more independent, i will go all out on my business. there is absolutely no doubt that this has been the hardest year of my life.  i lost 40% of my business in two days, at the start of lockdown.  i had worked so hard to get to where i had got to. and i was filled with fury that a pandemic had taken it away. every pitch we get, i throw as much energy at the screen as possible.  i find myself working longer hours to be more visible to my clients.  i am driven by this fear that next week i could lose another couple. but i have now got 60% more business back in. i'm used to working from home. but the biggest problem was having my eight-year-old daughter suddenly with me 24/7, when the schools closed.  we all knew it might come. but when it did, it happened so fast. it was really difficult having to work and do childcare at the same time.  before lockdown, i would have said it was impossible. i'm embarrassed to say that she spent a lot of time watching netflix and disney+. but i am the breadwinner. and my partner was working full time on our house renovation because, until it was finished, we were living in a static caravan. i'm now launching a new business, this time in edtech [education technology]. i'm looking to do as many things as possible to protect those closest to me and prepare for the next "impossible thing" to happen.  what i used to do doesn't exist anymore.  i had the life and career of my dreams. and i had left the corporate world to do it.  as soon as the pandemic hit, my diary just emptied.  the clients i had work booked with shut down any unnecessary spend.  then, my relationship ended. my best friend moved out of our flat. and suddenly, the only contact i had with others was through zoom.  i started having conversations with women in a similar field to me. and we started sharing how we were feeling. it made me think: "how can i bring this style of conversation to the world, to help inspire others?" and that led me into podcasting.  after a bad experience, i taught myself how to do the production. and it has led to me being paid to interview tech leaders elsewhere.  my bills are now getting paid. and the podcast is helping me to form an online community. before the pandemic, i was living for the future - always looking forward to the next big event or trip away. now, i don't know what the future holds or whether things will ever go back to the way they were. but if they don't, it's ok - i have a new business and a new life. i have worked from home before. and at the start of lockdown, i didn't think it would be that much of a big deal. but it turned out that working from the kitchen table was very uncomfortable. eventually, i finally got an old desk from a friend. and i was so happy.  since lockdown began, i've seen quite a few cyber-security issues with  phishing  and invoice re-direction - when a malicious actor gets hold of a legitimate invoice and resends it but changes the bank details.  sometimes, it's small amounts here and there, sometimes large amounts.  it's often difficult to recover the money. i'm also four months pregnant with our first child. i need new clothes. but if you go to the shop you can't try anything on. and i have no idea what size i am. plus, i am limited in the times i can go out. i don't drive. it has to fit around work. and we can't go at busy times, because standing in long queues is so exhausting.  i feel like i've lost my independence.  in addition, they haven't yet figured out how they are going to hold antenatal classes.  i feel like i won't meet any other parents until my kid starts school. before lockdown, my husband and i ran our own company, producing user guides and written content for websites. business income dropped by about two-thirds during lockdown.  we weren't eligible for any government grants. and because we still had a small amount of work, we couldn't furlough ourselves.  it felt like we were slowly marching our family towards a cliff edge.  in may, to my astonishment and relief, i was offered my dream job, remote writing about the internet and technology. working from home with the children has been the most difficult thing we've ever done.  my son is seven. he is very scared.  sometimes, we can't spend the time with him that we would like to. and most screen-time rules have gone completely out of the window.  the real issue for us now is testing.  my young daughter caught covid in july. and she recently had a temperature again. but it took six days to get a test result, so my son was off school again. and my husband was working until midnight to fit everything in. for ada lovelace day, we usually hold a cabaret-style event in central london. instead, we are holding five free webinars and have organised a 50-hour online extravaganza, with blog and social media posts and a youtube playlist.  in november, we're running our first online conference, which will span 29 time zones.    i've had to find and evaluate livestreaming services and conference platforms, something that i've never had to consider before.  it's been quite stressful working out how to run our online events affordably and dealing with the additional work involved.  our income has been badly affected by the pandemic as companies have less money to spend on event sponsorship, so we're also having to think about how we're going to make up that shortfall.  despite that, i'm really excited by what we're doing.  covid forced us to rethink everything. and some of the changes we've made may become permanent.  2020 has been a hard slog. and we're not out of the woods yet. but i hope we'll emerge stronger and able to reach and support more women in stem.  there are a lot of unanswered questions about the twitter hack on wednesday night - but one thing most agree on is it could have been far worse.  potentially thousands of people were scammed out of money after hijacked accounts of prominent verified users promised to double the money fans sent them in the cryptocurrency bitcoin.  using twitter's internal systems, the cyber-criminals' messages had a reach of at least 350 million people. and it looks like it made them about $110,000 (£86,800) in the few hours that the scam was active. it was an unprecedented attack on privacy, trust and security.  but experts say the hackers could have caused far more damage. as the boss of a smaller messaging service put it: "thank god for greed." twitter has huge engagement in the us, japan, russia and the uk.  it is the platform of choice for some of the most powerful and prominent people in the world.  their posts have moved financial markets and caused diplomatic incidents. with the us presidential election less than four months away, there are now valid questions to be asked about whether twitter can be relied upon in the lead up to the vote. president donald trump's account was not taken over in the hack. but many were watching to see if it would fall after his democrat rival joe biden's account tweeted out the scam. "we already know russia is planning to meddle in the 2020 election just as they did in the 2016 election," dr heather williams, from king's college london, said. "social-media manipulation is one of their favourite tools. "so this hack shows just how vulnerable social-media platforms are and how vulnerable americans are to disinformation.  "if something bigger was at stake, such as the presidency, this could have really disastrous consequences and undermine our democratic processes." the security implications of the hack are also wide-reaching, not just for twitter but for all social networks early suggestions are the hackers managed to access administration privileges, which allowed them to bypass the passwords of any account they wanted. twitter appeared to confirm this in a tweet saying: "we detected what we believe to be a co-ordinated social-engineering attack by people who successfully targeted some of our employees with access to internal systems and tools." "social-engineering" could mean one of several things. it might imply a targeted  phishing  operation - a common tactic employed by cyber-criminals, who find out which individuals have the keys to a system they want to enter and then target them with personal emails that trick them into handing over details. or it might mean the perpetrators managed to convince one or several staff members to go rogue, by offering a financial inducement or other means. major us twitter accounts hacked in bitcoin scamthe benjamin netanyahu twitter hack that never was the technology company is going to face huge pressure to be more specific. "twitter's reputation is the cost of this cyber-attack," world economic forum cyber lead william dixon said. "this is a major security breach for twitter.  "the worst in its history. "more cyber-resilience is needed across the ecosystem to be able to protect social media users around the world." twitter is not answering reporters' questions directly but said it had taken "significant steps to limit access to internal systems" while it investigated. the company also said it was "looking into what other malicious activity [the hackers] may have conducted or information they may have accessed". the chief executive of the messaging service element has raised the possibility confidential data was also exposed. "it's highly likely private direct messages were accessible for a short time," matthew hodgson said. "next time, harvesting sensitive information could fuel a wave of extortion or something much worse." the idea twitter has the ability to take over people's accounts no matter what security they have may shock some. but experts say it is a necessary part of any membership-based service. facebook, snapchat, instagram and youtube have been approached for comment on their security arrangements.  none has responded. but facebook's former chief security officer alex stamos told bbc news all consumer-facing companies needed a way to be able to help consumers recover hacked or otherwise locked-out accounts. "the change that can be made here is that twitter can restrict this ability for high-risk accounts to a much smaller number of users or create tools that require one person to initiate and another to approve the change," he said. "this is, apparently, what they have already done for president trump's account, following an incident in 2017.  "they will need to vastly expand these protections." beyond a potential loss of trust, twitter may now face legal consequences too. the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) says organisations such as twitter have to show "appropriate" levels of security. and if data-protection officers judge twitter failed to take adequate measures to protect european users, it could be fined. earlier this year, the company's chief executive, jack dorsey, lost control of his account for 20 minutes. and in 2010, twitter settled with the federal trade commission after it was alleged hackers had obtained unauthorised administrative control, including the ability to send out phony tweets from then-president-elect barack obama and fox news. earlier this month john, who believed he was due a tax refund, received a text message from "infohm". "i was bleary-eyed from waking up early," he says. "the excitement of what my tax refund would be overwhelmed my normally pretty rational brain." he followed online instructions, and unwittingly provided personal and bank account details to online fraudsters. hm revenue and customs (hmrc) is now warning young adults to be wary of such phone scams. in april and may, the government body says, fraudsters target vulnerable people with fake messages to coincide with the time legitimate rebates are being processed. because younger adults typically manage their finances via their mobile phones, they can be particularly susceptible to an approach via text message, hmrc warns.  last spring, hmrc received 250,000 reports of such scams. can't save money? is this the answer?minimum wage: how high could the lowest salaries go?fake hmrc phone scams 'surge by 360%' john, who did not want the bbc to use his real name, says he is now "cringing" over falling for it. but he says the page he was directed to was "the spitting image" of a gov.uk site. after entering his national insurance number and date of birth, it informed him he was due a credible sounding rebate of £462. he ended up providing details including his bank details and even his mother's maiden name.  "i didn't even think twice about giving out this information to this website," he says. "they just have to catch you off guard. if i'd have got the text yesterday at 11:30am after a good night's sleep, i'd have been like: 'this is clearly a scam'." john reported the breach to hmrc and action fraud, and has since put in place extra online security on his accounts.  "you don't need to tell me i'm an idiot," he says. "i know i'm an idiot, this is one of the most idiotic things i've ever done." the hmrc says it never requests bank details by text or phone, and that it is shutting down hundreds of sites a week associated with these schemes, which are known as " phishing  scams". "we are determined to protect honest people from these fraudsters who will stop at nothing to make their  phishing  scams appear legitimate," says head of customer services at hmrc, angela macdonald. "if you receive one of these emails or texts, don't respond and report it to hmrc so that more online criminals are stopped in their tracks." scammers also use phone calls, voicemails and emails, which may contain  computer-virus es designed to copy personal or financial information. the hidden web community has started trying to find out how services and identities were compromised after police raids led to 17 arrests. last week, several high-profile sites on the so-called "hidden", "dark" or "deep" web were seized. experts are looking at techniques the authorities may have used to "de-cloak" people running services accessed through anonymisation service tor. "we were as surprised as most of you," said the group that develops tor. in a blog post, the tor project team wrote: "we are left asking, 'how did they locate the hidden services?' we don't know.  "in liberal democracies, we should expect that when the time comes to prosecute some of the 17 people who have been arrested, the police would have to explain to the judge how the suspects came to be suspects. "as a side benefit of the operation of justice, tor could learn if there are security flaws in hidden services or other critical internet-facing services." the anonymity tor offers means that it has become popular with criminals as a way to conduct their activities online. but the tor project, which receives funding from the us government, is also seen as a key component for those who need anonymity on the internet for other important reasons, such as activism in repressive regimes. tor is one of several services that allows people to access what is generally referred to as the "hidden", "deep" or "dark" web. here, sites that do not show up on traditional search engines are located.  but more importantly, users on tor have their locations, and therefore identities, hidden. this is achieved by routing a person's journey on the internet through various different computers in locations all over the world, creating anonymity. however, with this latest raid, the anonymity of users on tor is again under question. but one expert, dr steven murdoch, from university college london, told the bbc it was unlikely that tor itself had been "cracked". "some major hidden markets are still available," he noted. "including some of the biggest.  "if they had a successful way of compromising hidden services they would have done it to everyone." the shutdown of the hidden web services was co-ordinated by europol in what it dubbed operation onymous.  in a press release, it said more than 400 services were shut - although it later clarified that to mean 400 pages were disabled. those pages had belonged to 27 individual services that were seized and closed. the majority of the sites were selling drugs or other illegal paraphernalia, while others dealt with the selling of stolen credit card data. the most high-profile closure was of silk road 2.0 - a site selling drugs, set up after the closure of the original silk road site last year.  the tor project went into detail listing possible methods of how the sites were compromised and their owners arrested. they included: poor operational security - that is, basic failings in running the websites. on silk road 2.0, investigators noted that an email address identifying blake benthall, who's been accused of running the site, was found within its codebugs in web applications - just as in the open internet, elements used within pages, such as video players or other interactive features, on tor can be vulnerable to bugs and exploits. the tor project said some of the sites seized were likely to have contained "quickly-coded e-shops" which as a result had weaknessesbitcoin "deanonymisation" - those using illegal services need a way to pay for what they are getting - and bitcoin is often the virtual currency of choice. while bitcoin is far harder to trace than the use of normal payment methods, it is certainly not completely anonymous. recent research has demonstrated ways to link bitcoin transactions with a user's location dos-attack  (dos) attack - highly theoretical at this stage, law enforcement could orchestrate a  dos-attack  - where a site is flooded with visits - in an attempt to force traffic to access tor through computers owned and monitored by the authorities. concerns about this complex technique were raised earlier this year in an attempt to find clues as to the authorities' tactics, one owner of a seized site - who was apparently not arrested - released log files showing activity on his "onion", the term given to sites on tor. he offered the logs up to the community for scrutiny. on a mailing list for tor developers, he wrote: "this will probably be a very humbling experience, because unlike my fellow illegal onion operators both past and present, i will actually be outside of a jail cell and able to read the ruthless dissection of my set-up.  "on the bright side, you're all are getting way more info from me than the pigs [police] will ever willingly cough up, which means if they have some sort of magic onion de-cloak trick, this mailing list discussion is a good chance at finding it." his post, titled, "yes hello, internet super-villain here", shared details of doxbin, a hidden website that allowed people to upload documents supposedly anonymously. from the logs, some have suggested that the  dos-attack , as detailed above, was responsible for "de-anonymising" users of the site. dr murdoch noted that getting a real explanation for how operation onymous was carried out is unlikely. "they're not going to tell anyone about it because they want to do it again," he said. "they want people to be afraid to run illegal hidden services." follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc tor is a special way to access the internet that requires software, known as the tor browser bundle, to use it. the name is an acronym for the onion router - just as there are many layers to the vegetable, there are many layers of  encryption  on the network. it was originally designed by the us naval research laboratory, and continues to receive funding from the us state department. it attempts to hide a person's location and identity by sending data across the internet via a very circuitous route involving several "nodes" - which, in this context, means using volunteers' pcs and computer servers as connection points.  encryption  applied at each hop along this route makes it very hard to connect a person to any particular activity. to the website that ultimately receives the request, it appears as if the data traffic comes from the last computer in the chain - known as an "exit relay" - rather than the person responsible. as well as allowing users to visit normal websites anonymously, it can also be used as part of a process to host hidden sites, which use the .onion suffix. tor's users include the military, law enforcement officers and journalists - who use it as a way of communicating with whistle-blowers - as well as members of the public who wish to keep their browser activity secret. but it has also been associated with illegal activity, allowing people to visit sites offering illegal drugs for sale and access to child abuse images, which do not show up in normal search engine results and would not be available to those who did not know where to look. supermarket giant tesco has suspended some parts of its online banking system after it detected attempts to steal cash from customers' accounts.  it said it spotted "suspicious transactions" on 40,000 accounts over the weekend, with money reportedly taken from about half of them. tesco has declined to elaborate on what happened, or say how much cash went astray, but said it was working with the national crime agency to investigate and find the culprits. yes, because this seems to be the first time that a uk bank has reacted so publicly by stopping some types of transactions on a web banking system because of "online criminal activity".  banks are targeted all the time but typically those attacks just hit a few individuals, so do not bring about a site closure. in this case, as far as we can tell, a lot of people lost cash very quickly. security expert troy hunt said the incident was unprecedented in its scale. he added that the shutdown was "embarrassing" for tesco and indicated how serious it was. tesco did not use the "h" word in its statement and in interviews its chief executive and other people speaking on behalf of the company have been careful in their choice of language. it has said that the attack was "sophisticated" and that an initial investigation had revealed exactly what had happened. so far, it has not shared that information but tesco's actions in the wake of the weekend's events do help to narrow down the possibilities. by letting customers withdraw cash from atms, use cards in shops and pay bills, it suggests that whatever went wrong does not involve the core computer systems underpinning tesco bank. these systems used to be run by rbs but since 2008 tesco has operated independently. security expert james maude, from software company avecto, said tesco's decision to suspend online transactions combined with the information that so many people were hit at once clearly suggests problems with its website. all too often, he said, maintenance or website updates can introduce errors and bugs that were not present before. cyber-thieves are constantly scanning valuable websites to spot changes and will swoop if one emerges. it might also be the case that a third party connected to tesco had a security issue and attackers got in via that route, which has happened in some of the biggest attacks in recent memory. most cybersecurity experts have a very jaundiced view of the world that they often sum up by saying: "everything is broken and there is always a way in." in short, there is no way that any organisation can keep it, and its customers and their data, safe all the time. many organisations now assume they will be breached and set up monitoring systems to spot when that happens, while also training staff to react quickly to fix problems. nik whitfield, from security firm panaseer, said often firms were caught out by vulnerabilities that emerge in software they use rather than through a change they make. it can be hard for organisations to keep across these factors because they use so many software packages.  in addition, some of the bugs are found by malicious hackers who sell them to gangs that want to use them. in these cases, the first an organisation will know about a bug is when it is used against them.  tesco has had problems with some other web-based systems in the past. in 2014, thousands of tesco customers' net accounts were deactivated after login names and passwords were shared online. in that case, tesco said attackers had compiled the data by using details stolen from other sites, because some tesco customers reused passwords. like many other banks, tesco has automatic fraud-spotting systems that keep an eye on accounts and build up a picture of normal activity. it is these kind of systems that can catch you out if you suddenly use your credit or debit card to buy lots of things from lots of different places in just a few minutes.  it is these monitoring systems that are believed to have alerted tesco to the problems that led to it suspending the site and halting transactions. we still do not know the details of what happened so it is difficult to give concrete advice. however, it is worth taking a few simple steps to protect your online account.  first, choose a good password and do not reuse one that you use elsewhere. use the bank's two-factor authentication and keep an eye on the transactions carried out via your account. keep security software on your pc, phone or tablet up-to-date and be on the lookout for  phishing  emails that capitalise on news about any breach.  james chappell, chief technology officer at computer security service digital shadows, said it was already starting to see cyber-gangs it monitors sending out spam posing as updates from tesco security staff. the gangs are hoping to trick people into handing over their tesco account details to let thieves take advantage. gchq disrupted "hacktivist" communications by using one of their own techniques against them, according to the latest edward snowden leaks. documents from the whistle-blower published by nbc indicate uk cyberspies used a  dos-attack  attack (dos) in 2011 to force a chatroom used by the anonymous collective offline. a spokeswoman for gchq said all the agency's activities were authorised and subject to rigorous oversight. but others say it raises concerns. dr steven murdoch, a security researcher at the university of cambridge, said using a  dos-attack  to overwhelm a computer server with traffic would have risked disrupting other services. "it's quite possible that the server was used for other purposes which would have been entirely unrelated to anonymous," he said. "it's also likely that most of the chat that was going on about anonymous was not to do with hacking because the people who join anonymous are fairly wide-ranging in what they think it is legitimate to do. "some have gone into criminality but many others just go out and organise protests, letter-writing campaigns and other things that are not criminal." campaign group privacy international is also worried. "there is no legislation that clearly authorises gchq to conduct cyber-attacks," said head of research eric king. "so, in the absence of any democratic mechanisms, it appears gchq has granted itself the power to carry out the very same offensive attacks politicians have criticised other states for conducting." the uk government's cyber security strategy document, published in 2011, says officials should take "proactive measures to disrupt threats to our information security", but also notes that any such action should be consistent with freedom of expression and privacy rights. the latest documents are published alongside an article part-written by glenn greenwald.  the journalist is one of only two people reported to have access to all whistle-blower edward snowden's leaked documents. the article highlights that the joint threat research intelligence group (jtrig) is the division identified as being responsible for the  dos-attack   - a unit whose existence had not previously been publicly disclosed. the documents indicate the unit also spied on and communicated with chatroom users to identify hackers who had stolen information. in one case, agents are said to have tricked a hacker nicknamed p0ke who claimed to have stolen data from the us government. they did this by sending him a link to a bbc article entitled: "who loves the hacktivists?" "sexy," p0ke is alleged to have commented.  but when he clicked the link it is reported that jtrig was able to bypass measures he had taken to hide his identity, although it is not clear how. nbc reports that p0ke - a scandinavian college student - was never arrested despite gchq learning his true name. but the leaks indicate others were imprisoned as a result of jtrig operations.  one paper highlights the case of edward pearson - a hacker known as gzero - who was sentenced to two years in jail in 2012 for illegally acquiring credit and debit card details registered with paypal. a transcript of a chatroom conversation indicates that pearson had contacted gchq agents claiming he knew a hacktivist they were investigating, unaware of the agents' true identity. in addition to anonymous, the documents list lulzsec, the a-team and the syrian cyber army as hacktivist groups gchq was concerned about. in one case it appears simply warning activists that carrying out their own  dos-attack s was illegal had the desired effect. nbc reports that the notice was posted via facebook, twitter, email, instant messenger and skype.  one alleged gchq document states that one month later 80% of those contacted had stopped using a hacktivist chatroom. but the documents also indicate that gchq was willing to use  dos-attack s itself as part of an operation codenamed rolling thunder, which prevented hacktivists using a chatroom for 30 hours in september 2011. gchq has a longstanding policy of not commenting on specific intelligence-gathering procedures, but a spokeswoman said all its work was "carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework". even so, one cybersecurity expert said he had mixed feelings about the latest leaks. "we have to remember that cyberspooks within gchq are equally, if not more, skilled than many black-hat hackers, and the tools and techniques they are going to use to fight cybercrime are surely going to be similar to that of the bad guys," said andrew miller, chief operating officer at corero network. "legally, we enter a very grey area here; where members of lulzsec were arrested and incarcerated for carrying out  dos-attack s, but it seems that jtrig are taking the same approach with impunity." a web attack has been launched against the wikileaks site set up to host leaked us diplomatic cables. the deluge of data launched against the site managed to briefly make it unreachable around 1200 gmt on 30 november. so far no-one has come forward to claim responsibility for the so-called  dos-attack  (dos) attack. a similar attack was launched against the main wikileaks site prior to the public release of the first cables. wikileaks revealed that the separate cablegate website was suffering a distributed  dos-attack  ( dos-attack ) attack via a message posted to its twitter stream. the cablegate site went live on sunday night and soon after started to suffer occasional downtime.  a d dos-attack  involves swamping a site with so many requests for access that it becomes overwhelmed.  data gathered by net monitoring firm netcraft showed that the cablegate site was intermittently available around tuesday lunchtime and early afternoon because of the attack. prior to the launch of the site, wikileaks had taken the precaution of hosting it on three separate ip addresses to cope with any attack. "this does not appear to have prevented the current attack from succeeding," wrote paul mutton, a security analyst at netcraft, in a blog post he told the bbc that it was hard to work out what type of attack was under way. at the weekend before the cablegate site went live, a hacktivist known only as the jester threatened to attack wikileaks claiming its leak of cables would endanger us troops.  mr mutton said the latest attack was unlikely to be the work of the jester as he has typically used twitter to announce his targets. something that was not done before the latest attack began. "the cablegate site has only released 281 of the 251,287 leaked cables, so these attacks are likely to be symbolic action more than anything else," said mr mutton. as cablegate came under attack, a separate ongoing assault against the main wikileaks site made it unreachable on tuesday afternoon.  the revenge of a whale or an accidental tragedy? a dramatic retelling of the story that inspired herman melville's classic novel will be hitting our screens on bbc one this sunday - but do whales really attack humans intentionally? sperm whales are relatively placid mammals and very few incidents in modern times suggest otherwise. they mainly feed on squid and rarely attack, apparently only when mistaking other mammals for seals or prey.  in his 1839 book about the natural history of sperm whales, thomas beale, a surgeon aboard a whaleship, described them as "a most timid and inoffensive animal readily endeavouring to escape from the slightest thing which bears an unusual appearance". but dr richard bevan, a zoologist and lecturer at newcastle university, suggests that a sperm whale may remember if it was previously attacked. "i have no doubt that an individual would remember being harpooned and might respond aggressively if it thought that it was threatened," he said. "on the other hand a large vessel like a  phishing  boat would probably look like a very large threat, even to a full grown sperm whale, so i'd have thought it more likely to have moved away." but 19th century literature seems to suggest otherwise, with numerous stories of sperm whales attacking ships on purpose. but were they fuelled by threat, hunger or, as in melville's classic novel, even revenge? in 1820, a giant sperm whale, apparently 85 feet long (the average is 50ft) attacked a whaleship named the essex, causing her to sink. her crew were left adrift in three whaleboats (lighter boats used in the capture of whales) thousands of miles from land.  alone in the middle of the pacific ocean the men had to decide whether to head for the nearest islands, a thousand miles downwind to the west, or set out on an epic journey of almost three thousand miles to reach the south american mainland.  fear of cannibals forced them to choose south america, but they never made it. of the 21 crew members aboard the essex, just eight members of the crew were rescued after more than 80 days at sea; with an incredible tale of starvation, dehydration and unfathomable, mortal desperation to tell.  two members of the crew wrote accounts of the failed voyage. first mate owen chase's account was a widely circulated story of the time, published just months after his return home. the other, written by cabin boy thomas nickerson 50 years later, was not published, but, remarkably, was discovered in an attic in 1960, 80 years after nickerson's death. their accounts differ in places, but what is indisputable is that they both recall exactly how their supposedly "lucky" ship sank. it was stove by a giant whale. herman melville heard this story, met with the captain of the essex and was inspired to write his classic novel moby dick. moby dick was actually named after a real whale, mocha dick, first spotted by sailors in the 19th century near the island of mocha, near southern chile. whales were often given pet names by sailors, tom and dick were common - though there are no accounts of a harry. mocha dick was an albino whale, described by explorer jerimiah n reynolds as "an old bull whale of prodigious size and strength… white as wool". legend has it that it killed 30 men and was covered in scars and punctured with spears from previous attempts to harpoon it; before eventually being slaughtered in 1838. sometimes described as leviathans, sperm whales truly are creatures of mythical proportions. they have the largest teeth of any whale and live to be more than 60 years old. they can dive deeper than any other sea mammal (around 3km) in order to catch their favourite deep sea food, the elusive squid. but it is the fact that they have the largest brains on earth, ones that are more complex - in certain ways - than those of humans, that is perhaps most surprising. their cerebral cortex is much more convoluted than the human cortex, and they are social creatures with strong bonds, staying in stable social groupings and keeping constant companions throughout their lifespan.  dr lindy weilgart, a research associate in the department of biology at dalhousie university in canada, believes that in order "to remember all their complex social relationships (families, more distantly related kin, non-related group members), they require a good memory". in fact, remembering traumatic past incidents could well have been the trigger for the whale that rammed the essex. "briefly, i do believe a sperm whale is capable of the aggression necessary to attack a ship, especially a mother if her young was threatened," dr weilgart says. "i know whalers in general often harpooned calves but kept them alive so as to attract the rest of the family group which came in aid of the calf." "they then harpooned those adults", she says, a practice that was "particularly cruel". however, dr bevan suggests that while "the cetaceans do have large brains… this is linked to their ability to process sound rather than being linked to what we regard as intelligence". whether they can feel emotions like vengeance, is in dispute. it is possible that the whale changed course underwater at the last minute and unwittingly collided with the ship.  dr per berggren, a lecturer in marine science at newcastle university and specialist in marine mammals, believes this to be nearer the truth.  "it is perhaps more likely that the ship accidentally hit the whale and sustained a leak large enough to sink the vessel." but what is remarkable in the case of the essex sinking, is that the whale came back to strike a second time.  first mate chase recalled: "i turned around and saw him… directly ahead of us, coming down with twice his ordinary speed… with ten-fold fury and vengeance in his aspect.  "the surf flew in all directions about him with the continual violent thrashing of his tail. his head about half out of the water, and in that way he came upon us, and again struck the ship. "the ship brought up as suddenly and violently as if she had struck a rock and trembled for a few minutes like a leaf."  latest research shows that whales are self-aware, sentient and more intelligent than previously thought. they can feel pain and suffering and therefore potentially a level of cognitive function; it is also now thought they can even experience feelings of love. sperm whales do not have many predators, killer whales (orcas) are known to have attacked sperm whales and occasionally sharks; but since the early 1700s by a large the most serious predator of sperm whales has been homo sapiens.   phishing  in the 19th century was a lucrative business as whale oil became immensely valuable for lighting oil lamps and making candles and soaps. more than 900 whaleships were out to sea in the mid-1800s, hailing mainly from american ports, with an average voyage length of three or four years.  by the mid 19th century, whale numbers were depleting rapidly. but with the discovery of petroleum in pennsylvania in 1859, the american  phishing  industry had almost completely disappeared by the start of world war i.  whale hunting is now illegal in most parts of the world (though still practised by some nations such as norway and japan) and concerns about the welfare of whales in captivity are currently making waves in the news.  the documentary film blackfish, about an orca in captivity at seaworld orlando that was involved in several deaths, has recently caused controversy for the theme park. the documentary suggests that keeping the whales in captivity may be causing them to behave psychotically. acts including willie nelson and barenaked ladies have recently cancelled performances at the park in the wake of the film's release. but seaworld has issued a detailed rebuttal of claims in the film. when first mate starbuck declares to captain ahab that "moby dick seeks thee not. it is thou, thou, that madly seekest him!" it's likely he was telling an awful and haunting truth.  whether or not the sperm whale that attacked the whaleship essex on the night of 20 november 1820 did so on purpose, we will never know. but the fascinating and undying rumour of his revenge certainly lives on. the whale will be shown on bbc one on sunday 22nd december at 9pm. thousands of websites hosted by one of the world's biggest internet domain registrars and web hosts, godaddy, were reported down on monday. "status alert: hey, all. we're aware of the trouble people are having with our site. we're working on it," the website host said. one twitter feed allegedly linked to anonymous claimed credit for a hack but the cause is far from clear. godaddy said later that most websites were back online. it said on its twitter account: "we're working out the last few kinks for our site & control centers. no customer data compromised." earlier, the company, which hosts millions of sites around the world, apologised for the frustration of some of its customers.  one twitter feed, @anonymousown3r, had said that "all servers" of go daddy had been taken down. the account of anonymousown3r identifies itself as the "security leader" of the group, but said in subsequent tweets that the attack was carried out alone and not on behalf of the organisation. "it is not anonymous coletive it's only me don't use anonymous coletive name on it, just my name," the person said in the feed. another went: "i'm taking godaddy down bacause well i'd like to test how the cyber security is safe and for more reasons that i can not talk now." a spokesperson for godaddy told the bbc that the firm was directing all inquiries to its @godaddy twitter feed. "you could say it's been a busy day," he said. rick ferguson, director of security research at the computer firm, trend micro, told the bbc that, while it was a "blunt instrument", a  dos-attack  attack was very effective. "what i've seen and heard is it was a  dos-attack  on the dns infrastructure," he said. the domain name system, in essence, translates the readable computer hostnames into ip addresses. "if it is true, then that has not been constructed to scale up in a sizeable  dos-attack . the godaddy site can cope with a sizeable amount of traffic, but its dns may not have been. "of course, that's speculation and without confirmation from godaddy on the nature of the attack, we don't yet know the full facts," he added. one twitter feed that has been used to claim credit for anonymous attacks in the past made reference to the disruption and then said: "please redirect your godaddy hate to @anonymousown3r says is the 'leader' of anonymous. #derp have #lulz with that." anonymous is a loosely organised collective of hackers and hacking advocates. godaddy provides hosting services around the world and said it had $1.1bn (£687m) in sales in 2011. attacks on major sites under the banner of anonymous have become much more common. in early june, members of anonymous staged protests in 16 cities in india against what they said was internet censorship in the country and in april, anonymous also claimed responsibility for defacing almost 500 websites in china. lulzsec, an off-shoot of anonymous, gained notoriety last year with a string of high-profile attacks on websites and businesses such as one on sony pictures in which thousands of personal details were published online. bitstamp - one of the world's largest bitcoin exchanges - has halted withdrawals after coming under cyber-attack. the slovenia-based firm said the culprits had exploited a bug in the virtual currency's underlying software to carry out the assault. it is the second exchange to suspend operations. tokyo's mtgox took a similar measure on friday. a third, bulgaria's btc-e, has warned that some transactions may be delayed. like bitstamp, it cited a  dos-attack  (dos) attack as the cause. the bitcoin foundation - a group of developers who maintain and promote the cryptographic code on which the currency relies - said that it was creating workarounds and fixes to tackle the issue. it added that people who had funds stored with the affected exchanges should know that their savings were safe, albeit "tied up" for the time being. "this is a  dos-attack  attack; whoever is doing this is not stealing coins, but is succeeding in preventing some transactions from confirming," wrote gavin andresen, chief scientist at the foundation. "it's important to note that  dos-attack s do not affect people's bitcoin wallets or funds." the cause of the problem is an issue called transaction malleability. it involves someone changing the cryptographic code - known as a transaction hash - used to create an id for the exchange of funds before it is recorded in the blockchain - a database of every transaction carried out in the currency. on monday, mtgox had suggested that this technique could be used to fool its systems into repeatedly making a payout because it would seem that it had not occurred. the bitcoin foundation's initial response was that transaction malleability had been known about since 2011, and that mtgox should have prepared for this when developing its own customised software, which was now proving vulnerable. "this is something that cannot be corrected overnight," wrote mr andresen. but while other exchanges are not complaining about the risk of making unauthorised payouts, it appears their systems can become overwhelmed if they receive too many "mutated versions" of the transaction ids. "this is a  dos-attack  attack made possible by some misunderstandings in bitcoin wallet implementations," said bitstamp's blog. "these misunderstandings have simple solutions that are being implemented as we speak, and we're confident everything will be back to normal shortly." the bitcoin foundation now says its members and developers from a number of exchanges are working "collectively and collaboratively" to tackle the problem and allow withdrawals to resume. one bitcoin is currently trading for about $665 (£402). that is well below the $830 level it was at last thursday, reflecting investors' concern at the news. however, one expert said the virtual currency should emerge from the attacks more robust than before. "obviously it's a bit more serious than was initially thought - it was originally believed that it was just a problem at mtgox because of the way they had set up their systems," emily spaven, editor of the news site coindesk, told the bbc. "the view from developers is that the exchanges should be processing bitcoin withdrawals again within 48-72 hours, though the wider issue of transaction malleability will take longer to address. "it's been a bit of a wake-up call to get this issue fixed. i suppose they previously thought it wasn't that big a deal." a british man's military training helped him get his family to safety after his wife was shot at by a group in a brazilian slum, his mother said. eloise dixon, 46, from gravesend, was in a car with her husband and children in angra dos-attack reis on sunday when the attack happened, according to reports. ms dixon, 46, was shot twice, once in the abdomen, and is now recovering. max dixon, 46, a bromley firefighter and former paratrooper "dealt with the situation calmly," hazel dixon said. "he just wanted to get out of it as quickly as possible - to the nearest hospital. "he told me the car was riddled with bullets," she added. the attack occurred in the first week of their family holiday. the couple had been travelling in the car with their three children isabella, 13, holly, eight, and seven-year-old alice. it is believed a language mix-up led the family, from hayes, south-east london, into the agua santa neighbourhood - a coastal resort about 90 miles (145 km) from rio de janeiro. authorities said a group approached the car and told the family to get out, but the dixons did not understand the request.  the group then reportedly opened fire. ms dixon said her daughter-in-law, a part-time classroom assistant at a primary school in hayes, was lucky to be alive.  she said the family, who travelled a lot and liked to go to adventurous places, were just one week into a three week holiday when the attack happened. the 46-year-old underwent two hours of surgery and is now in a stable condition waiting to be transferred to a private hospital in rio de janeiro. a man suspected of involvement in a "frenzied" stabbing at a birmingham bedsit is being hunted by police. keith wagstaffe is believed to have "played a part" in the attack in arden street, west midlands police said. "this was a frenzied attack and the victim has suffered, we believe, seven stab wounds to his body," det sgt simon hanlon said. two men have been arrested and bailed over the attack, which happened on 30 september. the 43-year-old victim has been placed in an induced coma in hospital and is in a critical condition, police said. officers said it was understood several people forced entry into the multi-occupancy property, at about 13:00 bst.  mr wagstaffe, 29 and of cookspiece walk in stechford, is suspected of attempted murder. det sgt hanlon added: "our inquiries suggest mr wagstaffe knows the victim and that this was a  targeted-threat . we do not believe anything was stolen from the flat. "we've made good progress with two suspects already arrested and a vehicle we believe used in the attack seized for forensic examination. "if anyone knows where mr wagstaffe is then please contact us straight away. do not approach him, just call us." follow bbc west midlands on facebook, twitter and instagram. send your story ideas to: newsonline.westmidlands@bbc.co.uk  the conservatives plan to open a second headquarters in leeds, the party's co-chairman has announced.  the new hq - a northern counterpart to conservative campaign headquarters in london -  is expected to open next year, amanda milling said, as she opened the party's virtual conference.  some mps have urged the pm to set out a broad post-brexit vision for the party. it comes as boris johnson has promised low-deposit mortgages to help young people get onto the housing ladder. in an interview with the daily telegraph ahead of his party's four-day conference, the prime minister said he had asked ministers to work up plans for encouraging long-term fixed-rate mortgages with 5% deposits. "we need mortgages that will help people really get on the housing ladder even if they have only a very small amount to pay by way of deposit, the 95% mortgages," he said. "i think it could be absolutely revolutionary, particularly for young people." worried tories pining for the 'old boris'everybody got 'complacent' over computer-virus , suggests pm the conservative campaign headquarters, in westminster, london, is where general election campaigns are run.  it was known for many years as conservative central office. according to bbc political correspondent iain watson, it houses press officers who undertake the more political tasks which civil servants cannot do - including attacking opponents and rebutting opponents' attacks.  it also liaises with the "voluntary party" - the grassroots foot soldiers - and raises funds for national campaigning. the conservatives argue that the new leeds headquarters will reinforce their commitment to deliver for those in northern constituencies who voted for the party for the first time at the general election in december.  "this new headquarters will provide the party with a base at the heart of the blue wall," ms milling said. also speaking at the conference, cabinet office minister michael gove said the government wanted to move more civil service jobs outside of london.  "far too many government jobs tend to be in the westminster and whitehall village," he said. "we have an amazing civil service and it has drawn its resources and people from lots of different communities - i think we now need to give back to those communities as well." meanwhile, downing street has set out the details of an independent review of transport connections across the uk.  the review, led by network rail chairman sir peter hendy, will look at improving road and rail networks and will also examine the "cost, practicality and demand" of building a bridge or tunnel between northern ireland and scotland. the transport study will set out advice on a "wide range of possible options" to improve the quality and availability of links across the uk, downing street said. one of the stated aims of the tories' virtual conference is to demonstrate that the party is listening to those voters who said they were merely lending their support to the conservatives. there will be a lot of talk about "levelling up" - in other words, doing more to spread investment and opportunity beyond london and the south east. but some recently-elected conservative mps believe the term is vague and not easily understood by voters. one of the 2019 intake told our correspondent: "we need to put flesh on the bones of this agenda - it has be about more than a couple of shiny new rail stations." another said the prime minister had to "raise his sights" and provide a longer-term vision, amid concerns over narrowing polls.  mr johnson told the telegraph that he was determined to press ahead with a "massive domestic agenda" and deliver on conservative manifesto promises, despite the ongoing coronavirus crisis.  the prime minister has promised to create "generation buy" with low-deposit mortgages to help get young people onto the housing ladder. he has also insisted he remains a low-tax, libertarian conservative who will pay for the cost of the pandemic through a "free market-led recovery". meanwhile, mr johnson dismissed newspaper reports that he and chancellor rishi sunak were now rivals as "genuinely untrue".  "we are as one," he said. asked about his coronavirus strategy, the prime minister said "all of this is being kept under constant review".  "if we make progress, all of these measures are capable of being changed," he said.  new rules, such as restricting gatherings to a maximum of six people and limiting opening hours for hospitality venues, are among the national measures that have been introduced around the uk. uk coronavirus cases up by 6,968 on fridaywhat are the covid rules where you live? mr johnson also offered some weight loss advice, after losing more than two stone following his experience contracting coronavirus earlier this year. according to the paper, he now weighs 15st 8lbs - having been 17st 6lbs - and said his top tip was "eat less, move more, weigh less".  mr johnson has previously revealed he has hired a personal trainer to lose weight after acknowledging he was "too fat" when he caught covid-19. analysis by alice aitken, bbc reality check you may remember that the conservatives pledged to build 40 new hospitals in their 2019 election manifesto.  on the eve of the party conference, the prime minister confirmed £3.7bn in funding for the project - an increase on the £2.8bn previously announced. six hospital trusts had already been promised £2.7bn in funding while 21 others were given a share of £100m in seed funding to develop proposals. on friday those trusts were told they will all be fully-funded to deliver 25 new hospitals. a new hospital at shotley bridge in durham has been added to the list and the government is also inviting bids for a further eight schemes. they say these new schemes mean 48 hospitals will be delivered by 2030. test and trace exposed: panorama hears from whistleblowers working on the coronavirus tracking systemlove life: fancy an escape? watch the addictive new series starring anna kendrick mexico has become the country with the third highest death toll with coronavirus, with only the us and brazil recording greater numbers.  it has now suffered at least 46,688 deaths during the pandemic, with a total of 424,637 infections.  previously the united kingdom had the third highest toll, and registered 46,204 deaths as of friday. the world health organization (who) has warned the effects of the pandemic will be felt "for decades to come". in mexico, local authorities have previously said they believe the real number of infections is likely to be significantly higher than those reported. mexico healthcare workers attacked for doing their jobmexico factory staff question 'essential work' president andrés manuel lópez obrador is eager to restart the country's flagging economy. his government announced a phased plan to lift restrictions in may. in mexico city, the capital, hundreds of thousands of factory workers returned to their jobs in mid-june. some non-essential businesses were then allowed to reopen at the start of july in the city, the epicentre of the country's epidemic. but critics say mr obrador was slow to impose lockdown measures and has lifted them too quickly. most of the mexican economy stopped on 23 march but some industries that were declared key to the functioning of the nation and were exempt from the restrictions. on friday ten state governors chastised the government's handling of the outbreak and called for the resignation of assistant health secretary hugo lópez-gatell - an epidemiologist and mexico's coronavirus tsar. more than 17.5 million coronavirus cases have been reported worldwide, along with nearly 679,000 deaths, according to a tally by johns hopkins university.  the us has recorded at least 153,415 deaths and brazil 92,475. some countries have tried to emerge from lockdown but in many, cases are rising again, reports the bbc's geneva correspondent, imogen foulkes.  some, like spain and the uk, are partially reintroducing restrictions or delaying plans for their easing.  more measures were expected to be relaxed in england this weekend but prime minister boris johnson said on friday that this would be delayed for at least two weeks. with cases continuing to rise around the world, who head dr tedros ghebreyesus called the pandemic a "once-in-a-century health crisis, the effects of which will be felt for decades to come". "although vaccine development is happening at record speed, we must learn to live with this computer-virus , and we must fight it with the tools we have," he said on friday. a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exercisehope and loss: your coronavirus storieslook-up tool: check cases in your areastress: how to look after your mental health a 19-year-old had "multiple stab wounds" in what is believed to have been a  targeted-threat .  he was hurt in an altercation in fox crescent, chelmsford at about 22:45 bst on tuesday. the victim told essex police he had been walking in the direction of kingswood shops when he was stopped and attacked by two men. he is being treated in hospital for injuries to his hands, back and chest but they are not life-threatening. police have called for witnesses to come forward. the force said it is believed the alleged attackers, who were black, left in a car. "at this time, we are treating this as a  targeted-threat  and do not believe that there is a risk to the wider public," a spokesman said. eyes are everywhere online.  the websites you visit often track where you came from and watch where you head off to next.  a vpn - or virtual private network - helps you browse the internet more anonymously by routing your traffic through a server that is not your point of origin.  it is a bit like switching cars to shake off someone who is tailing you.  there are plenty of companies offering services with varying degrees of security and varying degrees of cost, but if you are willing to roll your sleeves up and get technical with some basic coding and a £30 raspberry pi computer, you can build your own vpn server at home.  it won't give you the option of appearing to be from somewhere else but you can use it to connect external devices like a smartphone to browse the internet more securely through your home network, and access shared files and media on your home computer.  make no mistake, this is not a quick and easy process.  on bbc click i have shared some tips from my own experience setting up a diy vpn server.  below is a step-by-step guide you will need to follow to the letter, symbol and space if you want to follow in my footsteps. to follow this guide you will need: 1 x raspberry pi/pi 2 1 x 8gb micro sd card1 x sd card reader1 x 5 volt mini usb power supply (a suitable phone charger will do)1 x hdmi monitor (your tv or computer monitor)1 x usb keyboard1 x ethernet network cable prepare to install your operating system insert the micro sd card in your card reader. if you are reusing an old sd card make sure it is fully formatted to remove any old files using the free tool at http://sdcard.org install raspbian on your raspberry pi  download noobs (new out of the box software) from the raspberry pi website (https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/). this is an easy operating system installation manager.  open the .zip you downloaded and select all files, then just drag and drop them onto your sd card. insert the sd card in the raspberry pi then connect a monitor, keyboard and power cable. connecting the power will cause the raspberry pi to boot up and the green and red leds on the board should light up.  if the files are copied properly onto the sd card the green light will start flashing as the computer reads the data.  after a few seconds you will see a window open on the monitor with a range of operating systems to install - use the arrow keys on the keyboard to choose raspbian and hit enter to install. n.b. if you have trouble getting the noobs installation manager to work, you can also install raspbian by copying the disk image of the operating system onto your micro sd card. follow the instructions at https://www.raspberrypi.org/downloads/ to do this. change the default password before you go any further, make sure you change the default password, or anyone who knows the default will be able to access your home network.  you can do this from the options screen you are shown the first time you boot up your raspberry pi after raspbian is installed. when you next reboot your raspberry pi the login will be "pi" and the password whatever you have set. give your raspberry pi a static ip address the ip address is what tells devices where to find your raspberry pi on your home network.  networks usually issue a dynamic ip address, which can change each time you power up the device. if you want to be able to consistently connect to your raspberry pi from outside your home network you need to fix its ip address so that it is always the same - a static ip address. connect your raspberry pi to your router with an ethernet cable. at command prompt type:  ifconfig a bunch of information will come up and you need to note down what it says for your set against the following: inet addr [current ip address]  bcast [broadcast range]  mask [subnet mask]  next at the command prompt type:  sudo route -n  this tells you information about your router. note down: gateway destination  you now have all the information you need about your current ip set up and can edit the network configuration file to make the ip static. at command prompt type:  sudo nano /etc/network/interfaces look for the line that reads "iface eth0 inet dhcp" or "iface eth0 inet manual". the "dhcp" bit is requesting a dynamic ip or if your file says "manual" it is a manual setting, so use the arrow keys on your keyboard to move the cursor so you can delete this and replace it with "static". next put your cursor at the end of this line and hit enter, then add the following lines directly below the line you just altered, filling the [square brackets] with the information you just noted down. address [your current ip address] netmask [your subnet mask] network [your destination] broadcast [your broadcast range] gateway [your gateway] to save the file press ctrl and x together, when prompted to save type "y" and hit enter to accept the file name without changing it. at the command prompt type:  sudo reboot  your raspberry pi will now restart with the new, static ip address. set up an easy control system to save switching around cables if you do not have a spare hdmi monitor and keyboard you can download a free utility that lets you control your raspberry pi through a pop up window on another computer. this is called an ssh. the tool is called putty (j.mp/dlputty). double click the putty.exe file you download and it opens a dialogue box where you can enter the new static ip address you have given your raspberry pi. the first time you do this it will ask you to confirm accessing the device. you can now login and do everything you need to through this dialogue box on your computer, which means your raspberry pi never needs a monitor or keyboard to keep running. this is known as running it "headless". update your raspberry pi  one last piece of housekeeping to ensure you are running the latest software and drivers. at command prompt type:  sudo advanced-persistent-threat -get update wait for the updates to finish downloading and then type:  sudo advanced-persistent-threat -get upgrade wait until the upgrade completes. you are now ready to make your vpn the raspbian operating system we just installed comes with openvpn ready to unpack, which is the software we will be using to make our vpn. at command prompt type:  sudo advanced-persistent-threat -get install openvpn you will be asked to confirm your instruction then the software will be unpacked and installed. generating keys just like the unique key that unlocks your front door, your vpn needs keys generated to make sure that only authorised devices can connect to it.  openvpn comes with easy_rsa, a simple package for using the rsa  encryption  method to generate your unique keys.  the next series of commands need to be done in the root directory. you will notice at the moment the command prompt sits in a directory labelled as 'pi@raspberrypi: ~ $'.  typing "sudo" before a command tells the operating system to execute the command in the root directory, but if you want to save yourself some typing you can go ahead and type:  sudo -s you will now see your command prompt sits at 'root@raspberrypi:' now, at the command type on one line:  cp -r /usr/share/doc/openvpn/examples/easy-rsa/2.0 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa make sure you have spaces in the right places (before /usr and /etc). this instruction copies all of the files from the easy-rsa 2.0 directory into a directory in your openvpn installation.  n.b. you can copy lines of text using right-click and then when you right click inside the putty window it should paste, saving you a lot of typing. be aware though, some formatting errors can occur when copying and pasting large blocks of text so if you do not get the result you are expecting, resort to typing the details in by hand. next type:  cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa this changes the directory your command prompt sits at to your openvpn/easy-rsa directory. you now need to edit the text in the file we just copied over. nano is a simple text editor in raspbian you are going to see a lot of over the next few pages. to open the file inside this text editor type: nano /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/vars in the text that opens find the line that begins: export easy_rsa= you need to move the cursor down to edit this line to read:  export easy_rsa="/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa" n.b. make sure you remove any extraneous speech marks as anything other than the exact text above here will stop your keys from saving in the right place. next move your cursor down until you see the line: export key_size=1024 if you want to be extra secure you can change the value here to 2048 bit  encryption , although the key you eventually build will take significantly longer to generate. if you choose to do this edit that line to read: export key_size=2048 keep scrolling to the end of the file and you will see a bunch of export parameters such as country, province and city etc. you can choose to change these to set new defaults (this will potentially save you some typing in various later stages), but doing so will not affect the workings of your vpn. type ctrl and x then y then enter to save this file. build your certificates you are now set up to build the certificates your vpn will use to grant authority to devices you want to connect with. to open the easy-rsa directory, at the command prompt type: cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa next type: source ./vars this loads the vars document you edited earlier. next type: ./clean-all  this will remove any previous keys in the system.  next type: ./build-ca this final line builds your certificate authority. the raspberry pi will now ask you to complete some additional export values, like country, province, city, organisation etc. (if you changed these in the previous stage you will see your own choices already set as default).  it is not necessary for these values to be accurate so just hit enter each instance to use default value if you are feeling slack. name the server once you have entered through the fields and returned to the command prompt you need to name your server. call it whatever you like but do not forget it. type: ./build-key-server [servername] … replacing [servername] with your choice of name. you will now be given some more fields to enter values. you can change these or leave them as the defaults, but pay attention to three fields:   common name must be the server name you picked.  a challenge password? must be left blank. sign the certificate? [y/n] obviously, you must type "y." finally when prompted with the question: 1 out of 1 certificate requests certified, commit? [y/n] type "y" build keys for each user your server is now set up and you need to build keys for all the devices you want to be able to connect.  you can cut corners here and just build one key to use on all devices. only one device can connect using each key at a time though, so if you want simultaneous connections you will need a different key for each one. to assign a user a key type: ./build-key-pass [username] … substituting the [username] with your desired text - for example to make a key to connect my android to the vpn i chose the name kateandroid you will get some more prompts now: enter pem pass phrase … choose a password you will remember! it asks you to input this twice to eliminate errors. a challenge password? must be left blank. sign the certificate? [y/n]  hit "y" next type: cd keys then (using my example username, which you should change for your own):  openssl rsa -in kateandroid.key -des3 -out kateandroid.3des.key  this last line adds an extra layer of  encryption  to make it harder for hackers to break in. you will be asked to enter pass phrase for kateandroid.key - this is the phrase you entered in the previous step. you will then be asked to enter and repeat a new pem pass phrase for the des3 key. i used the same pass phrase for both so you only have one to remember. you will need the 3des.key pass phrase at the end of this process when you import your files to your devices. repeat these steps for all the usernames you want to build a key for. you have now created your "client certificates". type: cd .. generate the diffie-hellman key exchange.  this is the code that lets two entities with no prior knowledge of one another share secret keys over a public server. type: ./build-dh the screen will slowly fill with dots as the key is built from random numbers. it will take at least an hour if you upped your  encryption  to 2048-bit. if you left it at 1024-bit it could take as little as five minutes.  dos-attack  (dos) attack protection openvpn protects against this kind of attack by generating a static pre-shared hash-based message authentication code (hmac) key. this means the server will not try to authenticate an access request if it does not detect this key. to generate the static hmac key type: openvpn --genkey --secret keys/ta.key n.b. if you are using copy and paste it probably will not work on this line as the double "-" seems not to translate in the same way if you do not type it in. configuring your server now you have created all the locks and keys you need to tell your raspberry pi where you want to put the doors and who you want to give the keys to - essentially instructing the openvpn which keys to use, where you are going to be connecting from and which ip address and port to use.  to do this you must create a server configuration file. at command prompt type: nano /etc/openvpn/server.conf  this opens an empty file.  fill it with this text, taking care to change the details where indicated with a comment in # caps lock. (placing a "#" in front of a sentence in the code like this tells the system it is a comment and to ignore it when building the program).  also when changing the your server name sections i refer to the server name that was given to the 'build-key-server' command earlier on. local 192.168.2.0 # swap this number with your raspberry pi ip address dev tun  proto udp  port 1194  ca /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/ca.crt  cert /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/xx.crt # swap xx with your server name key /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/xx.key # swap xx with your server name dh /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/dh1024.pem # if you changed your  encryption  to 2048, change that here server 10.8.0.0 255.255.255.0  # server and remote endpoints  ifconfig 10.8.0.1 10.8.0.2  # add route to client routing table for the openvpn server  push "route 10.8.0.1 255.255.255.255"  # add route to client routing table for the openvpn subnet  push "route 10.8.0.0 255.255.255.0"  # your local subnet  push "route 192.168.0.10 255.255.255.0" # swap the ip number with your raspberry pi ip address # set primary domain name server address to the soho router  # if your router does not do dns, you can use google dns 8.8.8.8  push "dhcp-option dns 192.168.0.1" # this should already match your own router address and should not need to be changed # override the client default gateway by using 0.0.0.0/1 and  # 128.0.0.0/1 rather than 0.0.0.0/0. this has the benefit of  # overriding but not wiping out the original default gateway.  push "redirect-gateway def1"  client-to-client  duplicate-cn  keepalive 10 120  tls-auth /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/ta.key 0  cipher aes-128-cbc  comp-lzo  user nobody  group nogroup  persist-key  persist-tun  status /var/log/openvpn-status.log 20  log /var/log/openvpn.log  verb 1 hit ctrl and x then y and enter to save. there is one last edit to make in the server configuration files to make sure your raspberry pi knows you want it to forward internet traffic through our new network.  type: nano /etc/sysctl.conf near the top it says, "uncomment the next line to enable packet forwarding for ipv4."  you want to remove the "#" from the start of the next line to inform openvpn you want it to take that text into consideration.  the line should then read: net.ipv4.ip_forward=1 hit ctrl and x, then y and enter to save. finally you need to action the change you just made in the sysctl.conf file. to do this type: sysctl -p you have now made a functioning server that can access the internet. pass through the firewall raspbian has a built-in firewall that will block incoming connections, so we need to tell it to allow traffic from openvpn to pass through. to create a file that will run each time you start up your raspberry pi issuing this permission type: nano /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh inside this new file type: #!/bin/sh  iptables -t nat -a postrouting -s 10.8.0.0/24 -o eth0 -j snat --to-source 192.168.0.10  # swap the ip number with your raspberry pi ip address ctrl and x then y and enter to save. newly created files are not executable by default, so we will need to change the permissions and ownership of this file you just created. to do this type: chmod 700 /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh  then:  chown root /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh this script gives openvpn permission to breach the firewall and we now need to add it into the interfaces setup code so it runs on boot. type: nano /etc/network/interfaces find the line that says: "iface eth0 inet static." we want to add a line below the list of numbers that follow it. this line needs to be added at an indent so hit tab first: pre-up /etc/firewall-openvpn-rules.sh ctrl and x then y and enter to save. finally, reboot your raspberry pi by typing:  reboot n.b. each time you reboot your raspberry pi you will need to relaunch putty to connect to it. ensure you have a static public ip address we have created locks and keys for devices to use to connect to your vpn, but before we hand those keys out we need to tell them where to find the front door. this is your public ip address, which should be kept a secret as it identifies your location on the internet. you can find out your public ip by asking google. just type "what's my ip address?" into the search box. if this address changes each time you log on you do not have a static ip address so will need to use a dynamic domain name system (ddns) service to give yourself a domain name to put in place of the ip address.  there is a free service at https://www.changeip.com then on your raspberry pi, you need to run something called ddclient to update your ddns registry automatically.  at the command prompt type: sudo advanced-persistent-threat -get install ddclient this will launch a wizard for configuring ddclient. don't worry too much about what you enter here as we will be entering the config file straight away. to edit the ddclient configuration with the correct setting type: sudo nano /etc/ddclient.conf  every service will have slightly different configuration, - if you are using changeip.com this blog post will tell you how to edit your settings successfully https://blogdotmegajasondotcom.wordpress.com/2011/03/14/use-ddclient-with-changeip-com/ ctrl and x then y and enter to save. finally, to set this program running type: sudo ddclient n.b. if you reboot your raspberry pi you'll need to type "sudo ddclient" to start running it again.   create profile scripts for the devices you want to connect we have created keys for clients (computers and devices) to use to connect to your vpn, but we have not told the clients where to find the server, how to connect, or which key to use.  if you created several different client keys for each of the devices you want to grant access, it would be a lot of trouble to generate a new configuration file for each client from scratch.  luckily eric jodoin of the sans institute has written a script to generate them automatically.  first type:  sudo nano /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/default.txt  fill in the blank text file with the following:  client  dev tun  proto udp  remote [your public ip address] 1194  #replace your dynamic dns value from changeip.com resolv-retry infinite  nobind  persist-key  persist-tun  mute-replay-warnings  ns-cert-type server  key-direction 1  cipher aes-128-cbc  comp-lzo  verb 1  mute 20  ctrl and x then y and enter to save. next, to create the script that makes your profile keys type: nano /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/makeovpn.sh  in this file you need to add the text that jodoin wrote to create the script: #!/bin/bash  # default variable declarations  default="default.txt"  fileext=".ovpn"  crt=".crt"  key=".3des.key"  ca="ca.crt"  ta="ta.key"  #ask for a client name  echo "please enter an existing client name:" read name  #1st verify that client's public key exists  if [ ! -f $name$crt ]; then   echo "[error]: client public key certificate not found: $name$crt"   exit  fi  echo "client's cert found: $name$cr"  #then, verify that there is a private key for that client  if [ ! -f $name$key ]; then   echo "[error]: client 3des private key not found: $name$key"   exit  fi  echo "client's private key found: $name$key" #confirm the ca public key exists  if [ ! -f $ca ]; then   echo "[error]: ca public key not found: $ca"   exit  fi  echo "ca public key found: $ca"  #confirm the tls-auth ta key file exists  if [ ! -f $ta ]; then   echo "[error]: tls-auth key not found: $ta"   exit  fi  echo "tls-auth private key found: $ta"  #ready to make a new .opvn file - start by populating with the default file  cat $default > $name$fileext  #now, append the ca public cert  echo "<ca>" >> $name$fileext  cat $ca >> $name$fileext  echo "</ca>" >> $name$fileext #next append the client public cert  echo "<cert>" >> $name$fileext  cat $name$crt | sed -ne '/-begin certificate-/,/-end certificate-/p' >> $name$fileext  echo "</cert>" >> $name$fileext  #then, append the client private key  echo "<key>" >> $name$fileext  cat $name$key >> $name$fileext  echo "</key>" >> $name$fileext  #finally, append the ta private key  echo "<tls-auth>" >> $name$fileext  cat $ta >> $name$fileext  echo "</tls-auth>" >> $name$fileext  echo "done! $name$fileext successfully created." #script written by eric jodoin \ no newline at end of file ctrl and x then y and enter to save. n.b. i was not able to successfully copy and paste the entire script accurately in one go, but taking it one section at a time worked no problem). next you need to give this script permission to run. type:  cd /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/ the to give it root privileges type: chmod 700 makeovpn.sh finally, execute the script with:  ./makeovpn.sh as it runs, it will ask you to input the usernames names of the clients for you generated keys for earlier (in my case kateandroid). type that when prompted and you should see the line: done! kateandroid.ovpn successfully created. repeat this step for each additional username you added client.  export your client keys for use on the connecting devices  you now need to copy those keys onto the devices you want to use them. if you are using putty on a windows machine you can use a software package called winscp to do this. for mac, try fugu.  first, to grant yourself read/write access to the folder at the command prompt type:  chmod 777 /etc/openvpn chmod 777 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa chmod 777 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys chmod 777 /etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/[clientname].ovpn be sure to undo this when you're done copying files by typing: chmod 600 /etc/openvpn and repeating for each step with the chmod 600 command, which removes read/write access again. you can now launch the software you are using to copy the files off your raspberry pi to navigate to the openvpn folder and copy the files labelled "kateandroid.ovpn" etc. you can also open the command prompt on the machine in your network you would like to copy the files to and type: scp pi@[ip-address-of-your-pi]:/etc/openvpn/easy-rsa/keys/[clientname].ovpn [clientname].ovpn install the openvpn connect app on your device you are now ready to download and install the openvpn connect app on your android or iphone - they are available through the stores as a free download. you will need to import the profile keys you just made as the final piece of the vpn connection puzzle. when prompted for a pass phrase here it is the 3des.key one you will need to enter. for ios use itunes to add the .ovpn file to the openvpn connect app. when you launch the app on your phone you will now get the option of installing that profile and making the connection. for android connect your android device to your computer with a usb cable. navigate to the downloads folder on your handset and paste the .ovpn file there.  when you launch the app on your handset you can now tap the menu dropdown in the top right corner, select import>import profile from sd card then navigate to the downloads folder and choose to import the file and make the connection. one more thing after all this is done, if your phone still can't connect to the openvpn server you might need to adjust the firewall on your router to do port-forwarding of port 1194 to the raspberry pi. you'll need to follow the instructions from your isp to access the router and complete this step. thanks to : https://twitter.com/zoodor for debugging this guide. the us launched a cyber-attack on iranian weapons systems on thursday as president trump pulled out of air strikes on the country, us reports say. the cyber-attack disabled computer systems controlling rocket and missile launchers, the washington post said. it was in retaliation for the shooting down of a us drone as well as attacks on oil tankers that the us has blamed iran for, the new york times said. there is no independent confirmation of damage to iranian systems. the us is set to impose further sanctions on iran that president trump has described as "major". he said the sanctions were needed to prevent tehran from obtaining nuclear weapons, and economic pressure would be maintained unless tehran changed course. iran nuclear crisis in 300 wordsus-iran relations: a brief historyhow us sanctions have hit iran speaking in jerusalem, us national security adviser john bolton said the details of the new sanctions were likely to be announced on monday. nobody had granted iran "a hunting licence in the middle east," he added. tensions between the us and iran have risen since the us last year pulled out of a 2015 nuclear deal between iran and world powers and reinstated sanctions, triggering economic meltdown in iran. last week iran said it would exceed internationally agreed limits on its nuclear programme. mr trump has said he does not want war with iran, but warned the country would face "obliteration" if conflict broke out. the attack had been planned for several weeks, the sources told us media outlets, and was suggested as a way of responding to the mine attacks on tankers in the gulf of oman. it was aimed at weapons systems used by iran's islamic revolutionary guard corps (irgc), which shot down the us drone last thursday and which the us says also attacked the tankers. both the washington post and ap news agency said the cyber-attack had disabled the systems. the new york times said it was intended to take the systems offline for a period of time. on saturday the us department for homeland security warned that iran was stepping up its own cyber-attacks on the us. christopher krebs, the director of the cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency, said "malicious cyberactivity" was being directed at us industries and government agencies by "iranian regime actors and their proxies". 'stop attacks,' uk minister urges iranwhy the whatsapp spies may have eyes on iranus-russia clash over power grid 'hack attacks' they were using "destructive 'wiper' attacks", he said, using tactics such as "spear  phishing , password spraying and credential stuffing" in a bid to take control of entire networks. iran has also been trying to hack us naval ship systems, the washington post reported. he hasn't commented on the cyber-attack reports. on friday he said he had pulled out of launching conventional strikes on iran because he had been told that 150 iranians would be killed. on saturday he said he was open to talks with the iranians. "if iran wants to become a prosperous nation... it's ok with me," mr trump said. "but they're never going to do it if they think in five or six years they're going to have nuclear weapons." "let's make iran great again," he added, echoing his campaign slogan from the 2016 presidential election. the reinstatement of us sanctions last year - particularly those imposed on the energy, shipping and financial sectors - caused foreign investment to dry up and hit oil exports. the sanctions bar us companies from trading with iran, but also with foreign firms or countries that are dealing with iran. this has led to shortages of imported goods and products that are made with raw materials from abroad, most notably babies' nappies.  the plunging value of the rial has also affected the cost of locally produced staples such as meat and eggs, which have soared in price. iran's irgc said the drone's downing was a "clear message" to the us that iran's borders were "our red line". but us military officials maintain the drone was in international airspace over the strait of hormuz at the time. amir ali hajizadeh, a high-ranking officer in the irgc, said another military aircraft, carrying 35 passengers, had been flying close to the drone. "we could have shot down that one too, but we did not," he said. a judge in brazil has ruled that a film depicting jesus as gay must be removed from the tv streaming service netflix. the film, the first temptation of christ, infuriated fervent christians in the country. two million people signed a petition calling for it to be axed, and the production company was attacked with molotov cocktails last month. in the ruling against netflix, the judge said: "the right to freedom of expression... is not absolute". however, the ban is only temporary while a final decision is made.  the parody film, which was run as a christmas special, was created by brazilian youtube comedy group porta dos-attack fundos.  bolsonaro: brazil must not become 'gay tourism paradise' many of the country's conservative christians were angered by the portrayal of jesus bringing home a presumed boyfriend to meet his family.  on christmas eve, a group attacked porta dos-attack fundos's office in rio de janeiro with fire bombs.  one man suspected of having been part of the attack has fled to russia, and interpol are working to arrest him. a judge in rio de janeiro ordered netflix to take the film down, the bbc's daniel gallas reports from são paulo. judge benedicto abicair said his temporary decision would appease furious christians until a final decision is made by a higher court. "exhibiting the 'artistic production'... may cause graver and more irreparable damage than its suspension," the judge wrote.  neither netflix nor porta dos-attack fundos has yet commented. brazil's far-right president jair bolsonaro once said he would rather have a dead son than a gay son. his son, eduardo bolsonaro, called the netflix show "garbage" on twitter, adding that porta dos-attack fundos "do not represent brazilian society". far-right protests greet georgia gay film premiereis lesbian kiss in crimean play 'gay propaganda'?lgbt prom cancelled over safety concerns in september, some of the biggest ever net attacks targeted the website of a prominent blogger and french hosting firm ovh. one attack is believed to have involved more than one trillion bits of data. the two events signalled a change in tactics by malicious hackers who make their living bombarding websites with vast amounts of data in what are known as distributed  dos-attack  attacks ( dos-attack ). the data directed at the targets was being sent by ip cameras, digital video recorders, printers and other "smart" devices that hackers had managed to hijack. not easily.  if it is being used to bombard someone else, your web connection speed might slow. you might not notice anything if you are just browsing but the effect might be seen on video or music streaming which might stutter, and gaming sessions could suffer delay or "lag". tech-savvy folk can use well-known software tools to watch data packets flowing across their home network but this can be challenging unless you know what you are doing.  not with the police, no. but many security researchers have shown how malicious hackers can "pivot" from a bug in a webcam to your internal network and then spy on everything else connected to it. if your webcam or printer is taken over, you have, in effect, an intruder in your home. it's worth taking steps to shut them out. largely because they are far easier to take over and control than pcs or servers. many of these devices, which make up the "internet of things" use default passwords and have no security software installed.  even better, for the attackers, there are lots of them, they usually stay switched on all day and they are hard to update and secure. in the past, attackers mounting d dos-attack s have had to rent hijacked machines from other people. but now they can scan for vulnerable devices and create their own armies of zombie devices to create a  malicious-bot . web-connected cameras are particularly popular but scans are also being carried out for digital tv recorders, home routers and printers. all these have a basic processor inside that can be subverted to pump out attack packets. brian krebs, the blogger who suffered an attack from an iot  malicious-bot , has compiled a list of devices known to have been used to bombard his site with data. many of the login names and passwords for these devices are easy-to-guess combinations.  on 1 october, source code for one iot attack was publicly shared, leading some to suggest that many more malicious hackers will now start scanning for vulnerable devices. this map created by security firm symantec shows where europe's  malicious-bot s are hosted. turkey is home to most of the hijacked gadgets and pcs. the first d dos-attack s were seen on the web in 2000. the first wave of data bombardments was aimed at gambling sites which were threatened with being knocked offline unless they paid a fee. most of those extortion attempts used hijacked pcs to send data. now the rise of the internet of things that is populated with smart devices has kicked off renewed interest in these types of attacks. security researchers have warned about the dangers of insecure iot devices for some time but they are starting to be used for significant attacks sooner than many people expected.  first thing is to change the default password on the device - even if it is not on the list of devices being scanned for. many iot devices look different but under the plastic case share the same chips and code.  if possible, update the software that keeps the gadget running. some hardware makers are starting to issue updates that force owners to choose hard-to-guess passwords or which close the software loopholes that hackers can exploit.  unfortunately, a lot of cheaper iot devices, especially webcams, cannot be updated or have their security settings improved. in some cases, just turning them off will remove the attack code. however, once turned back on the device might be taken over again.  even more unfortunately, some of the attempts to hijack vulnerable devices use software that operates at a "lower" logical level than the gadget's web interface. you might have to dig deep into the settings of a device to clear up all the passwords.  at least 10 universities in the uk, us and canada have had data stolen about students and/or alumni after hackers attacked a cloud computing provider. human rights watch and the children's mental health charity, young minds, have also confirmed they were affected. the hack targeted blackbaud, one of the world's largest providers of education administration, fundraising, and financial management software. the us-based company's systems were hacked in may. it has been criticised for not disclosing this externally until july and for having paid the hackers an undisclosed ransom. in some cases, the data was limited to that of former students, who had been asked to financially support the establishments they had graduated from. but in others it extended to staff, existing students and other supporters. the institutions the bbc has confirmed have been affected are: university of yorkoxford brookes universityloughborough universityuniversity of leedsuniversity of londonuniversity of readinguniversity college, oxfordambrose university in alberta, canadahuman rights watchyoung mindsrhode island school of design in the usuniversity of exeter all the institutions are sending letters and emails apologising to those on the compromised databases. in some cases, the stolen data included phone numbers, donation history and events attended. credit card and other payment details do not appear to have been exposed. blackbaud, whose headquarters are based in south carolina, declined to provide a complete lists of those impacted, saying it wanted to "respect the privacy of our customers". "the majority of our customers were not part of this incident," the company claimed. it referred the bbc to a statement on its website: "in may of 2020, we discovered and stopped a  ransomware  attack. prior to our locking the cyber-criminal out, the cyber-criminal removed a copy of a subset of data from our self-hosted environment." the statement goes on to say blackbaud paid the ransom demand. doing so is not illegal, but goes against the advice of numerous law enforcement agencies, including the fbi, nca and europol.  blackbaud added that it had been given "confirmation that the copy [of data] they removed had been destroyed". several blackbaud clients listed on its site have confirmed they were not affected, including: university college londonqueen's university belfastuniversity of the west of scotlandislamic reliefprevent breast cancer "my main concern is how reassuring - impossibly so, in my opinion - blackbaud were to the university about what the hackers have obtained," commented rhys morgan, a cyber-security specialist and former student at oxford brookes university, whose data was involved.  "they told my university that there is 'no reason to believe that the stolen data was or will be misused'.  "i can't feel reassured by this at all. how can they possibly know what the attackers will do with that information?" blackbaud has said it is working with law enforcement and third party investigators to monitor whether or not the data is being circulated or sold on the dark web, for example. barrister blogger matthew scott was also sent an email about the hack. "i doubt that my university has many details that aren't pretty easily available, but i am more concerned about giving in to the blackmail and blithely accepting the word of the blackmailer that all the data has now been destroyed," he told the bbc. under general data protection regulation (gdpr), companies must report a significant breach to data authorities within 72 hours of learning of an incident - or face potential fines.  the uk's information commissioner's office [ico], as well as the canadian data authorities, were informed about the breach last weekend - weeks after blackbaud discovered the hack. an ico spokeswoman said: "blackbaud has reported an incident affecting multiple data controllers to the ico. we will be making enquiries to both blackbaud and the respective controllers, and encourage all affected controllers to evaluate whether they need to report the incident to the ico individually." leeds university said, in a statement: "we want to reassure our alumni that, since being informed by blackbaud of this incident, we have been working tirelessly to investigate what has happened, in order to accurately inform those affected. no action is required by our alumni community at this time, although, as ever, we recommend that everyone remains vigilant." in july, an 89-year-old chinese woman was walking through her neighbourhood in brooklyn, new york, when she was slapped and set on fire. the two people made away on foot as the elderly woman rubbed her back against a wall to put out the flames. news spread of the attack and it didn't take long to come to the attention of china mac, a chinese-american rapper from new york.  mac, real name is raymond yu, decided enough was enough. "that was home, this was right here, this is brooklyn. i was watching the clip of her speaking in cantonese and that's my language. i was hurt, i wanted to do something about it," he says. 'i'm asian, so i can never be american' attacks on east asian people living in the us have shot up during the coronavirus pandemic. stop aapi hate, a group which records reports of covid-19 discrimination directed at asian americans and pacific islanders in the us, received 2,808 incidents of self-reported cases from the start of the pandemic to the end of the year.  "i saw a comment saying: 'i bet china mac isn't going to do anything about this', and i was like 'i actually would, and i am going to do something about this,'" he says. mac arranged they can't burn us all protests across the us in a stand against the rise in anti-asian racism. leading a protest movement was just the latest step in a remarkable journey for mac, a former gang member who was once jailed for attempted murder. china mac was born in the early 1980s in new york to chinese parents. his father, known locally as fox, was a high-ranking member of the flying dragons gang, notorious in new york for trafficking heroin and its bloody turf war with their chinese-american rivals, the ghost shadows. "i saw the respect he got. i saw the admiration and fear people had of him. i saw things happening in chinatown, dead bodies. i had to be very careful where i walked. i remember certain places i couldn't go to," mac recalls.  mac describes his early life as a "bubble" in chinatown. his father wasn't around a lot and his mother, who spoke little english, had to raise mac mostly on her own while working two jobs. "i wanted to know him … but i felt like he never really wanted to be with me," mac says of his father.  a lot changed for mac when his father was arrested, becoming a federal informant and passing over information about johnny eng, or onionhead, the leader of the gang.  "my father told on him. i remember the shift in the attitude towards me and my mother. before it was like 'this is fox's son' and people would open the door for me, i felt like royalty. but after that situation i felt the difference. my mom was scared to walk in certain places, she was always on alert," he says.  "i remember seeing that and i didn't fully understand, but as time progressed i understood the kind of position my father put us in." by the age of seven, mac's mother was struggling as his behaviour deteriorated, and he was placed in a group home. this was a world far detached from the isolated upbringing he'd had in chinatown. he soon realised that the only way to survive in a chaotic environment full of competing children was to fight.  it was here that he discovered hip-hop, realising it was a way to fit in. he spent hours memorising the lyrics to the likes of krs one, mobb deep and ll cool j. mac would often recite lyrics in rap battles with other kids. "i plagiarised it and i was rapping to people. they were like 'whoa that's crazy' until they realised i was plagiarising, that didn't last too long," he laughs. "but it was the feeling ... and i was like 'that's the response i need, that's what i want.'" mac eventually moved back in with his mother before running away. it was then, at the age of 12, he was recruited into the ghost shadows - the rivals of his father's former gang. mac was soon deeply involved in the life that came with being a ghost shadow. he was in and out of juvenile detention centres as a teenager for various violent crimes, including robbery and assault.  then in november 2003, mac was involved in an incident that would change the course of his life.  mac walked into a club in chinatown and spotted mc jin, a fellow chinese-american rapper who was making waves in the world of hip-hop.  one of mac's friends mentioned that jin had allegedly disrespected one of their friends. mac and his friend cornered jin and a tussle broke out between the two groups. during the altercation someone shouted that one of jin's associates, christopher louie, had a knife, mac says.  mac then pulled out a gun, aimed it at the back of louie's head and pulled the trigger. the gun jammed. he shot a second time and a bullet hit louie in the back.  "i remember the gun jamming but i wasn't fully in control. while i was doing it, it was a blur, but i do remember what happened. something else took over me," mac says.  he left the club and spent the next year on the run.  mac spent the year moving between new york, chicago, atlanta, detroit and kalamazoo in michigan. he spent a period living in student houses at albany university and georgia tech, committing robberies and petty crime to get by. then, one day, somebody passed him a copy of blender magazine featuring an article about the shooting and mac's mug shot.  mac tried to flee to canada, but was spotted at the border. the game was up.  he was taken to rikers island, one of the country's most infamous prisons.  "rikers island was a zoo. it was dangerous there. my classification was super high. i was in the housing areas where everyone was facing life, murder charges, big charges," he recalls. "i understood rikers island. i was fighting all the time, cutting people, always in trouble. it's the culture, we would fight over anything." facing life behind bars, mac saw little point in changing his behaviour. but when the trial came, his lawyer delivered a presentation about mac's life and how he was a product of his environment. the judge handed him an 11-year jail term.  one day a few years into his sentence, mac's mother came to visit him in sing sing jail, where he was then incarcerated. she cried throughout the visit, while mac helplessly tried to comfort her. back in his cell, mac broke down in tears. a prisoner sweeping the floor outside leaned on the bars to the cell. "he said: 'i saw you on the visiting floor and i saw your mother.' at the time he had 27 years in prison," mac recalls.  "he said: 'i remember when that happened to me, my mother has passed away since then. i just want you to know this doesn't have to define you. this doesn't have to be your last stop. you can turn this into more prison time, or you can use this as a university. you have all the time in the world to learn about whatever you want to learn, to fix whatever you want to fix."  mac decided it was time to make a change. he started to read and enrolled in every program he could. he even featured in the hbo documentary university of sing sing.  mac was eventually released in 2013. he launched a record label, red money records, and opened a pet store that his mother now runs. he started dropping freestyle raps, including one called 0 to 100 that went viral.  after getting recalled to jail for just over a year for violating his probation curfew, upon his release his music started getting more traction. he even recorded a song with one of his heroes, method man from wu tang clan. he released his debut album mitm in 2017.  mac started branching out as his social media following grew to hundreds of thousands. his youtube show, mac eats, where he takes viewers on food tours of new york, was a big hit with fans. an interview with mac and jin, where they discuss the night of the shooting for the first time, racked up 1.5 million views. then covid came.  soon after covid-19 was detected in wuhan, china, racist abuse started to get hurled at many asian-americans. many accused then-president donald trump of adding fuel to the flames with incendiary language, including calling it the "china computer-virus " and "kung flu". in california, an elderly man collecting cans was threatened with an iron bar as he wept, and a teenager was taken to hospital after being physically assaulted. in texas, an asian family, including a two-year-old and six-year-old, were stabbed in a supermarket.  "i was just seeing things online. videos were being circulated and i saw the man with the cans in san francisco. i did a video saying that we will raise money for the man. i wanted to do something about it," mac says.  then the elderly woman was attacked in brooklyn. he felt it was time to stand up.  mac arranged they can't burn us all protests with actor and producer william lex ham. rallies took place in new york, los angeles and san francisco, with many asian-americans turning out. mac said he took inspiration from the civil rights movement of the 1960s. "people had to sacrifice, people had to stand up, people had to fight, people had to be uncomfortable. imagine what martin luther king felt at that time? imagine what malcolm x felt?" he says.   "asian people don't have that, there's not enough of it, we haven't had that fight yet. i'm not saying there weren't asian people who were a part of that movement, there were. but it wasn't the majority. we haven't really stood up and fought for our own yet."  mac says it was time to use his fight for a positive cause. "we're not going to take it and we're ready to fight. you're not going to do this to us. that's something i learned in prison, i learned to stand up for myself," he says.  although the they can't burn us all movement has been a success, mac admits it could have been better organised. despite leading a protest movement, mac emphatically refutes the suggestion he's now a political activist. "i'm not an activist man. i like to go to the strip club. i like to be in the hood. i'm not built for the political s---," he says.  "but i am built to fight for my people." looking to the future, mac says he finds himself in "difficult times", without elaborating. he says he wants to keep bettering himself and "his people". "i don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. all i know is that i can stay the course," he says.  the next day, mac wiped his instagram and deleted most of his music from youtube. in a post, titled i quit music, he said that he had "reached his ceiling". this week, he travelled to san francisco bay area  and took to the streets after reports of more attacks on the asian community.  whether mac heeds calls from his fans to return to music remains to be seen, but whatever he chooses next, his journey has been an extraordinary one.  brazil's supreme court has overturned a ruling that tv streaming service netflix must remove a film depicting jesus as gay. the film, the first temptation of christ, infuriated fervent christians in the country. two million people signed a petition calling for it to be axed, and the production company was attacked with molotov cocktails last month. a judge temporarily banned the film on wednesday to appease its critics.  but supreme court president dias toffoli said on thursday that netflix should be allowed to continue streaming the show, stating that freedom of speech was fundamental in a democracy. "one cannot suppose that a humorous satire has the ability to weaken the values of the christian faith, whose existence is traced back more than two thousand years, and which is the belief of the majority of brazilian citizens," the judge said.  the parody film, which was run as a christmas special, was created by brazilian youtube comedy group porta dos-attack fundos.  bolsonaro: brazil must not become 'gay tourism paradise' many of the country's conservative christians were angered by the portrayal of jesus bringing home a boyfriend named orlando to meet his family, while mary and joseph plan him a surprise 30th birthday party.  on christmas eve, a group attacked porta dos-attack fundos's office in rio de janeiro with fire bombs.  one man suspected of having been part of the attack has fled to russia, and interpol are working to arrest him. a judge in rio de janeiro ordered netflix to take the film down on wednesday. judge benedicto abicair said his temporary decision would appease angry christians until a final decision was made by a higher court. "exhibiting the 'artistic production'... may cause graver and more irreparable damage than its suspension," the judge said.  porta dos-attack fundos said in a statement that it "opposed any act of censorship, violence, illegality, authoritarianism" and would continue to air its work. brazil's far-right president jair bolsonaro once said he would rather have a dead son than a gay son. his son, eduardo bolsonaro, called the netflix show "garbage" on twitter, adding that porta dos-attack fundos "do not represent brazilian society". far-right protests greet georgia gay film premiereis lesbian kiss in crimean play 'gay propaganda'?lgbt prom cancelled over safety concerns a text-message scam that infects android phones is spreading across the uk, experts have warned. the message - which pretends to be from a package delivery firm, prompts users to install a tracking app - but is actually a malicious piece of  spyware . called flubot, it can take over devices and spy on phones to gather sensitive data, including online banking details. network operator vodafone said millions of the text messages were already being sent, across all networks. "we believe this current wave of flubot  malware  sms attacks will gain serious traction very quickly, and it's something that needs awareness to stop the spread," a spokesman said.  customers should "be especially vigilant with this particular piece of  malware ", he said, and be very careful about clicking on any links in a text message.  other networks, including ee and three, followed with warnings of their own. the national cyber security centre (ncsc) later issued guidance about the threat, including advice on what to do if you have already downloaded the attacker's application by mistake. "if users have clicked a malicious link it's important not to panic - there are actionable steps they can take to protect their devices and their accounts," the ncsc said in a statement. the  malware  also has the ability to send more text messages to an infected user's contacts, helping it spread.  "the seriousness of these malicious text messages is underlined by vodafone making the decision to alert its customers," said ben wood, chief analyst at ccs insight. "this has the potential to become a  dos-attack  attack on mobile networks, given the clear risk that a rogue application can be installed on users' smartphones and start spewing out endless text messages.  "the broader risk for users is a loss of highly sensitive personal data from their phones," he added. fresh warnings over royal mail parcel scamex-police officer 'devastated' by £3k text scamfake nhs vaccine messages sent in banking scam while text message scams claiming to be about a package delivery firm are common, they have mostly focused on  phishing  - trying to trick the user into filling in a form with bank details and other information. this newest wave differs because it tries to install  malware  on the phone itself - and because of the scale of its spread.  one version of the scam reported online pretends to be a text message from dhl, with a link to a website for parcel tracking. if someone using an android phone clicks on the link, they will be taken to a page "explaining" how to install the parcel tracking app using something called an apk. apk files are a way of installing android apps outside of the secure google play store. by default, such applications will be blocked for security reasons, but the scam page includes instructions on how to allow the installation. that can be confusing, as there are some niche genuine cases for installing those kind of apps - such as downloading the fortnite video game, which was removed from the official app store amid a major legal row between its owner and google.  apple iphone users are not affected as those phones cannot install android apks. in a blog post detailing the scam, security researcher paul morrison wrote that he expects the "success rate would be low" due to the hurdles involved. but he said: "with the number of sms being sent out, just a 0.1% success rate could be very profitable." the flubot  malware  has also spread in other countries in recent months - notably spain, germany and poland. kate bevan, computing editor at consumer magazine which? said people have to be "wary" of texts.  "if you're not sure, contact the delivery company's official customer service helpline," she said. "as ever, it's important to make sure that your mobile phone is up to date with security patches. consider also installing mobile security software from a trusted brand." industry body mobile uk said users who receive a suspicious message should forward it to 7726 to report it, a spokesman said - and then delete the message. about 30,000 mac devices have been infected with a mysterious piece of  malware . the "unusual" silver sparrow strain silently affected systems in more than 150 countries around the world.  it was discovered by researchers at security company red canary, who have yet to determine its purpose. apple says it has taken steps to restrict the potential damage the  malware , which targets devices with its new m1 chip, could cause.  its actions effectively prevent any new devices from being infected. al jazeera staff ‘hacked via israeli  spyware ’apple's security chief charged with bribery bbc news has asked apple to clarify how existing users can tell if they are affected.  researchers said silver sparrow "did not exhibit the behaviours that we’ve come to expect from the usual  spyware  that so often targets macos systems". it appears to call a command-and-control server every hour, from an infected machine, to check for "further instructions".  it also has a system in place to self-destruct and hide its existence entirely.   "though we haven’t observed silver sparrow delivering additional malicious payloads yet, its global reach, relatively high infection rate, and operational maturity suggest silver sparrow is a reasonably serious threat, uniquely positioned to deliver a potentially impactful payload at a moment’s notice,” the researchers said.  lisa forte, from red goat cyber security, told bbc news the attack should be a wake-up call to mac users who assumed they were not at the same risk as windows users of being infected by  malware .  "the  malware  doesn’t appear to have done anything nasty," she said. "but the fact it spread so fast and infected so many devices is alarming in itself.  "no device is immune from computer-virus es." computer security expert alan woodward said the attack appeared to be an effort to disprove this long-standing myth.  "it is as if someone was trying a proof of concept of how to move harmful code on to macs and to control it once there," he said. "but they didn’t include the truly damaging elements." some of the laptops given out in england to support vulnerable children home-schooling during lockdown contain  malware , bbc news has learned. teachers shared details on an online forum about suspicious files found on devices sent to a bradford school. the  malware , which they said appeared to be contacting russian servers, is believed to have been found on laptops given to a handful of schools. the department for education said it was aware and urgently investigating. can you get a free laptop or cheap broadband?covid 19: the huge challenges of home-schooling a dfe official told bbc news: "we are aware of an issue with a small number of devices. and we are investigating as an urgent priority to resolve the matter as soon as possible. "dfe it teams are in touch with those who have reported this issue." "we believe this is not widespread." geo, the firm which made the laptops, told the bbc: "we have been working closely with the department for education regarding a reported issue on a very small number of devices. we are providing our full support during their investigation.  "we take all matters of security extremely seriously. any schools that have concerns should contact the department for education." according to the forum, the windows laptops contained gamarue.i, a worm identified by microsoft in 2012.  the government has so far sent schools more than 800,000 laptops, as it tries to distribute more than a million devices to disadvantaged pupils who may not have access at home.  "upon unboxing and preparing them, it was discovered that a number of the laptops were infected with a self-propagating network worm," wrote marium haque, deputy director of education and learning at bradford council. she recommended that schools also check their networks "as an added precaution". information security consultant paul moore told the bbc that the gamarue worm "presents a very severe threat to any pc or network". "ideally users should reboot into safe mode and run a full scan with an anti-virus product," he said. "however with this type of  malware , it is advisable to seek professional assistance in order to ensure it has been correctly removed." the  malware  in question installs  spyware  which can gather information about browsing habits, as well as harvest personal information such as banking details. "the fact that these devices were not checked and scrubbed before being sent to vulnerable children is a concern," said george glass, head of threat intelligence at security firm redscan. subway customers in the uk are receiving scam emails as part of a  phishing  attack. users took to social media to complain about the emails, which claim to be an order confirmation from the fast-food chain and contain links to  malware . the emails also use the victims' names, and appear to come from the chain's subcard loyalty scheme. subway has not said whether its databases have been compromised or what the source of the scam is. but the firm has acknowledged that there is a problem. a spokesperson for the company said: "we are aware of some disruption to our email systems and understand some of our guests have received an unauthorised email." it apologised for any inconvenience and advised people to delete the email. the problem was earlier reported by computer security news site bleeping computer, which said it had found a form of  malware  called trickbot in the malicious links the email encourages users to click. trickbot is designed to steal personal information from infected computers, and can also install other computer-virus es and  ransomware . the email links to fake documents that supposedly need to be confirmed - including insurance documents for the sandwich, suggesting that the attack had been repurposed from an existing scam. bleeping computer reports that these documents include an excel spreadsheet download, which asks users to enable additional features that install the computer-virus . it is not clear how the attacker accessed the details of customers. online, some recipients claimed that the attack email appeared to come from the address that the company usually uses. update 12 december: subway has issued a fresh statement: "having investigated the matter, we have no evidence that guest accounts have been hacked. however, the system which manages our email campaigns has been compromised, leading to a  phishing  campaign that involved first name and email. the system does not hold any bank or credit card details. crisis protocol was initiated and compromised systems locked down. the safety of our guests and their personal data is our overriding priority and we apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused." computing giant microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the uk, us, germany, japan and china has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years.  yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. however, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting microsoft's widely-used exchange email system. and the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. so is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more pcs, or should businesses be more worried? firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a pc.  increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing  malware  that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the pc to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. this is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect  malware , because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. microsoft hack: 3,000 uk email servers unsecuredhundreds of uk firms hacked in global cyber-crisiscyber-flaw affects 745,000 pacemakers security experts have told the bbc that even if it departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "people don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains australian cyber-security researcher robert potter.  mr potter built the washington post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the australian government on cyber-security. "firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." there have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as robbinhood, a  ransomware  that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then  encryption  all files until a bitcoin ransom has been paid. this  malware  held the data of several us city governments hostage in may 2019.  another example is thunderspy, an attack that utilises the direct memory access (dma) function that pc hardware components use to talk to each other. this attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is  encryption , the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "if device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains chris boyd, a  malware  intelligence analyst at security firm  malware bytes.   "remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." the good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to gabriel cirlig, a security researcher with us cyber-security firm human (formerly white ops). "it is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the bbc. typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users.  firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem.  the national institute of standards and technology (nist), an agency within the us department of commerce, continually updates a national vulnerability database (nvd) with new security flaws. the database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity.  carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says mr cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data.  nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "this is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as  phishing  scams,  malware  or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the bbc spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security. "firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says mr boyd.  "it's like when  ransomware  first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." mr boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point mt cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger.  "microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says mr potter.  "as we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. and if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it."  malware  which signed users up to subscription services without their permission has been found on thousands of mobiles sold in africa. anti-fraud firm upstream found the malicious code on 53,000 tecno handsets, sold in ethiopia, cameroon, egypt, ghana and south africa. manufacturer transsion told buzzfeed it was installed in the supply chain without its knowledge. upstream said it was taking advantage of the "most vulnerable". "the fact that the  malware  arrives pre-installed on handsets that are bought in their millions by typically low-income households tells you everything you need to know about what the industry is currently up against," said geoffrey cleaves, head of upstream's secure-d platform. the triada  malware  found by the firm on the android smartphones installs malicious code known as xhelper which then finds subscription services and submits fraudulent requests on behalf of users, doing so invisibly and without the user's knowledge. if the request is successful, it consumes pre-paid airtime, the only way to pay for digital services in many developing countries. in total, upstream found what it described as "suspicious activity" on more than 200,000 tecno smartphones. according to research firm idc, transsion holdings is one of china's leading phone manufacturers and in africa it is the top-selling mobile manufacturer. in response tecno mobile said that the issue was "an old and solved mobile security issue globally" to which it issued a fix in march 2018. "for current w2 consumers that are potentially facing triada issues now, they are highly recommended to download the over-the-air fix through their phone for installation or contact tecno's after-sales service support for assistance in any questions," the firm told the bbc in a statement. it added that it is attached "great importance to consumers' data security and product safety". "every single software installed on each device runs through a series of rigorous security checks, such as our own security scan platform," it added. at the beginning of the year, security firm  malware bytes warned that similar pre-installed apps were found on another chinese android phone - the umx u686cl. this handset was offered to low-income families in the us via a government scheme. and in 2016, researcher ryan johnson found that more than 700 million android smartphones had  malware  installed. google, which developed the android operating system, is aware of the issue. in a blog written last year it blamed third-party vendors, used by manufacturers to install features such as face unlock, for pre-installing triada  malware . it said it had worked with manufacturers to remove the threat from devices. mobile phones offered to low-income families via a us government scheme come preloaded with chinese  malware , according to a security company.  malware bytes said it had received several complaints that pre-installed apps on the phone were malicious. it had bought one to verify the claims and informed the company selling them, assurance wireless, of its findings but had not received a response, it said. the android-based phone - umx u686cl - is made by a chinese company. bbc news has contacted virgin mobile - which owns assurance wireless - for comment but has not yet received a response. one of the pre-installed apps, which looks and operates as a wireless update program, automatically installs more apps without user consent, according to  malware bytes. and it appears to be a variant of adups,  malware  previously traced to china, which transmits text, call-location and app data to a chinese server every 72 hours. in 2016, researcher ryan johnson, of security company kryptowire, found more than 700 million android smartphones, including some in the us, had adups installed. his report prompted investigations from google and the department of homeland security. a second app containing  malware , on the umx u686cl phone, used code containing chinese characters,  malware bytes said. and neither of the apps were removable. "that there's a mobile device available for purchase through a us government-funded programme raises the bar on bad behaviour by app-development companies," said  malware bytes security consultant nathan collier in a blogpost. "it's important to realise that umx isn't alone.  "there are many reports of budget phones coming pre-installed with  malware  and these reports are increasing in number.  "although i don't have the answer to this widespread issue, i can say that us citizens using the lifeline assistance program and many others on a tight budget deserve more." the lifeline programme has been offered to low-income americans since 1985.  typically, users pay about $10 (£8) a month for a 3g phone with between 500mb and 1gb of data. the scheme is run by the federal communications commission, which has not responded to requests from bbc news for comment. google is beefing up the way it checks if any of the apps uploaded to its play store are malicious. all new apps will be scanned by  malware -spotting tools from three cyber-security companies as well as google's own in-house system. google said it needed help because the number of apps being uploaded was too large for it to handle alone. nasty play apps can hit lots of people. malicious code found in june was in apps downloaded 400 million times. security companies zimperium, eset and lookout will work together on what google has called the app defense alliance. the four partners will set up a combined scanning system that will scrutinise apps as they pass through google's pipeline on the way to being offered to android users via the play store. working from massive databases of known  malware , behavioural clues and machine-learning models of novel threats the scanners will look for  spyware s,  spyware ,  ransomware , banking  malware  and  phishing  attacks. "on the  malware  side, we haven't really had a way to scale as much as we've wanted to scale," dave kleidermacher, google's vice-president of android security, told wired magazine. mr kleidermacher added there were so many apps being developed, even making a "1% incremental improvement" could make a difference.  the scanning system is the latest in a series of steps google has taken in its bid to do a better job of policing the play store.  in april, it announced more rigorous checks for developers to root out "bad faith" coders who produced and uploaded malicious or fraudulent apps. a hugely popular android app that takes high quality photographs of documents has been found to contain  malware . camscanner has been downloaded more than 100 million times by android users. however, cyber-security researchers at kaspersky say they found that a recent version contained malicious code in the part of the app that delivers ads. the  malware  could have made it possible to show users intrusive ads or snoop on login credentials. kaspersky's researchers noted that camscanner was a "legitimate" app, but think that the snippet of malicious code found in it was third-party code used to serve ads within apps. a spokeswoman for kaspersky told the bbc that researchers did not examine the iphone version of camscanner to see if it was also affected.  the free version of camscanner for android is currently not available on google's play store in the uk. camscanner said it had released a new version of the app, with the malicious code removed. android ditches desserts as q becomes 10google play app store accused of anti-gay bias if you have automatic updates enabled for your apps, which many people do, there is a chance you have a version of camscanner containing  malware  on your device. if in doubt, it is best to delete camscanner and wait for a new version to be launched and tested by cyber-security researchers, said matthew hickey at security firm hacker house. users may also use an anti-virus app to check for any  malware  that might have been installed. "it is said the average consumer has around 40 applications on their phone they will use frequently, so ensure you regularly review any of those applications that you are not using," he told the bbc. mr hickey also advised users who have mobile banking apps to be particularly cautious and use an anti-virus app that can regularly check for malicious code. this was important because there had been a "sharp increase" recently in discoveries of  malware  infecting apps on the google play app store, he added.  a laptop packed with six types of dangerous  malware  has been sold for $1.3m (£1.03m) in an online auction. the artwork titled the persistence of chaos was a joint project between artist guo o dong and cyber-security company deep instinct. an anonymous bidder bought the 11-year-old samsung notebook containing the  malware . under the terms of the auction, the buyer has 24 hours to provide follow-up information regarding payment. among the  malware  loaded on the pc was the infamous iloveyou computer-virus  from 2000, which infected computers at the houses of parliament, as well as other institutions. also included was the  ransomware   ransomware  that struck organisations around the world in 2017. the nhs faced £92m in costs after  ransomware  spread through its systems. " malware  is one of the most tangible ways that the internet can jump out of your monitor and bite you," guo o dong told tech news site motherboard. because the sale of  malware  is restricted in the us, whoever purchases the laptop will receive it only once its ports and internet capabilities have been "functionally disabled", according to the auction web page. the british computer hacker who helped stop a major cyber-attack affecting the nhs in 2017 has avoided a jail sentence in the us over malicious hacking charges. in april, 25-year-old marcus hutchins pleaded guilty to two charges of making  malware , or  malware . prosecutors alleged that the  malware  let cyber-criminals steal online banking details from internet users. hutchins admitted to creating two programs known as kronos and upas kit. since hutchins' arrest in 2017, he has remained in the us on bail.  the judge presiding at hutchins' hearing, jp stadtmueller, said that the 25-year-old would face one year of supervised release. however, he would be allowed to return to the uk and would not have to pay any fines. hutchins had faced a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. british hacker loses bid to omit evidencearrested cyber-expert 'had used drugs' in court documents filed earlier this year, investigators acknowledged that hutchins, known online as  malware tech, was no longer involved in creating  malware . he created kronos and upas kit between 2012 and 2015 but later switched towards ethical hacking and cyber-security research. us prosecutors argued hutchins still bore responsibility for his actions. this did not seem to sway the judge who praised hutchins for "turning a corner" during sentencing at the court in milwaukee, wisconsin. hutchins, from ilfracombe in devon, was credited with discovering a "kill switch" for the  ransomware   ransomware , which hit the nhs and many other organisations around the world in may 2017. three months later, he was arrested by the fbi before boarding a flight from las vegas to the uk. he had been attending the def con cyber-security conference in the city. on the day before his sentencing, hutchins tweeted a message of thanks to supporters who had sent character reference letters to the court on his behalf. "it means so much!" he wrote. previously, in a statement published on his website in april, hutchins said he wrote the  malware  before he began his career in cyber-security. "i regret these actions and accept full responsibility for my mistakes," he said. "having grown up, i've since been using the same skills that i misused several years ago for constructive purposes. i will continue to devote my time to keeping people safe from  malware  attacks." police have warned students in the uk against using a website that they say lets users "illegally access" millions of scientific research papers. the city of london police's intellectual property crime unit says using the sci-hub website could "pose a threat" to students' personal data. the police are concerned that users of the "russia-based website" could have information taken and misused online. the sci-hub website says it "removes all barriers" to science. it offers open access to more than 85 million scientific papers and claims that copyright laws should be abolished and that such material should be "knowledge to all". it describes itself as "the first pirate website in the world to provide mass and public access to tens of millions of research papers". but max bruce, the city of london police's cyber protection officer, has urged universities to block the website on their networks because of the "threat posed by sci-hub to both the university and its students". "if you're tricked into revealing your log-in credentials, whether it's through the use of fake emails or  malware , we know that sci-hub will then use those details to compromise your university's computer network in order to steal research papers," he said. the city of london police, which is the national lead for fraud, has warned that students studying online at home might be vulnerable. "students should be aware that accessing such websites is illegal, as it hosts stolen intellectual property," said det insp kevin ives. he warned that visitors to the website, whose twitter account has been suspended, are "very vulnerable to having their credentials stolen". the police warning says scientific papers could have been obtained by a "variety of malicious means, such as the use of  phishing  emails to trick university staff and students into divulging their login credentials". but the sci-hub website has previously told the bbc that it provides students with access to research papers for which the subscriptions are "very expensive". andrew pitts, chief executive of the psi registry, which highlights "academic piracy", has warned that users "may inadvertently download potentially dangerous content from this illegal site and put the security of their organisations at risk". the national cyber security centre, part of the gchq intelligence service, has warned of the threat of cyber-attacks against universities. last autumn the cyber-agency warned of online attacks attempting to "derail" the start of the academic year in universities. a laptop deliberately infected with six notorious strains of  malware , including  ransomware  and iloveyou, is being auctioned in the us as an art project. at time of writing, the highest bid for the device was $1.1m (£800,000). the auction states that the samsung laptop's internet connectivity will be disabled when the device is shipped to the auction winner.  the 11-year-old notebook has been air-gapped - a security measure to isolate it from other networks. it is illegal in the us to sell  malware  for the purpose of causing damage.  the terms and conditions of the auction state that the laptop must be purchased "as a piece of art or for academic reasons". the auction ends on wednesday. the project is a collaboration between the artist guo o dong and a new york cyber-security company called deep instinct. "we came to understand this project as a kind of bestiary, a catalogue of historical threats," guo told vice.  "it's more exciting to see the beasts in a live environment." the six strains of  malware  on the laptop are:  ransomware  - the  ransomware  that hit the nhs in 2017iloveyou - released in the year 2000, this infected 50 million computers in two weeks, including at the cia, pentagon and uk parliamentmydoom - a rapid-spreading 2004 windows email worm that looked like an error messagesobig - when this was discovered, in 2003, one security company told bbc news one in 17 emails it was seeing was carrying the computer-virus darktequila - a keylogger  malware  designed to steal financial data and log-in credentialsblackenergy - used to attack ukraine's power grid in 2016 the auction has bemused some cyber-security experts. "if you want to save a million dollars, you could connect a laptop to the internet without antivirus software and security patches and leave it a few days for a similar infestation," said kevin beaumont. nurseries and childminders are being warned of the threat of cyber-attacks, in guidance from the government's national cyber security centre (ncsc). it is the first time that the agency - part of the gchq intelligence service - has given guidance to a sector caring for such young children. it includes warnings to use password protection for information for parents. "we know that incidents affecting the education sector are increasingly common," said sarah lyons at the ncsc. the cyber-agency says pre-school providers and childminders are "increasingly relying on technology to operate" and have become an "appealing target" for cyber-attacks. •cyber threat to disrupt start of university termuniversity cyber-attack to take weeks to fix cyber-criminals could be seeking personal information about children or families, and to target the payments process for parents, warns the ncsc. the early years cyber-security advice warns about  malware , so-called " malware ", and the need to protect personal information and data. "cyber-criminals will go after anybody, provided there's money to be made," says the ncsc's advice. the cyber-security agency calls for a more secure approach to sharing information, including newsletters for parents. "you should password protect newsletters so only families who have been given the password can open them," says the guidance. the ncsc says many scam emails are "preying on fears of covid-19" and warns nurseries and child minders to watch out for fake messages trying to obtain information with false claims, including: resetting passwords, receiving compensationmissed deliveries. there are also warnings about protecting computer devices, including smartphones, and to guard against scam phone calls and text messages. education at all age groups has become a significant target for cyber-attacks. a big multi-site further education college, the south and city college birmingham, has been forced to close by a "major  ransomware  attack" - with the college telling students to stay home this week. universities faced a wave of cyber-attacks last autumn, targeting research and data and causing disruption to computer systems. the ncsc is now widening its advice to the early years sector. sarah lyons, deputy director for economy and society engagement at the ncsc, said across educational settings it was "vital that all providers know how to secure their devices and sensitive data". but she said many people in early years "work on their own, without dedicated it support". "this guidance sets out the practical first steps they can take to protect themselves from cyber-incidents." "like most professions, the early years sector is increasingly reliant on technology, and this new guidance will support them with protecting sensitive data," said vicky ford, children and families minister. "it is paramount that early years settings have robust cyber-security in place to help them communicate with children, families and staff delivering early education and childcare provision safely," she said. a british man hailed as a hero for stopping a global cyber-attack that was threatening the nhs has pleaded guilty to us  malware  charges. marcus hutchins, 24, has pleaded guilty to two charges related to writing  malware  - or  malware  - court documents show. writing on his website, hutchins said he regretted his actions and accepted "full responsibility for my mistakes". hutchins has been held in the us since he was arrested by the fbi in 2017. "as you may be aware, i've pleaded guilty to two charges related to writing  malware  in the years prior to my career in security," he wrote on his website.  "i regret these actions and accept full responsibility for my mistakes.  "having grown up, i've since been using the same skills that i misused several years ago for constructive purposes. i will continue to devote my time to keeping people safe from  malware  attacks." british hacker loses bid to omit evidencearrested cyber-expert 'had used drugs' hutchins, from ilfracombe in devon, was credited with stopping the  ransomware   malware  which was threatening the nhs and other organisations in may 2017. but he was arrested by fbi agents on 2 august 2017 at las vegas's mccarran international airport. he had been attending the def con conference - one of the world's biggest hacking and security gatherings. a woman carrying two chinese passports and a device with computer  malware  allegedly lied to enter us president donald trump's mar-a-lago club.  the woman, yujing zhang, 32, told security she was at the florida club to go to the pool, according to a criminal complaint filed in us district court.  "due to a potential language barrier issue," staff believed she was related to a club member and let her in. mr trump was in palm beach at the time of the incident on saturday 30 march. ms zhang - who was described in the affidavit as an "asian female" - is charged with making false statements to a federal officer and illegally entering a restricted area.  according to the court documents, upon entry to the club ms zhang changed her story, telling a front-desk receptionist she was there to attend a "united nations chinese american association" event.  the receptionist, who knew that such an event had been scheduled, became suspicious of ms zhang.  the suspect was transported off the property for further questioning.  she told agents she had been instructed by a friend, identified only as "charles", to travel from shanghai, china, to palm beach to attend the purported united nations event, but did not provide any more details, according to court documents.  she said "charles" had encouraged her to attempt to speak to a member of the president's family about chinese-american economic relations, said the affidavit. secret service agent samuel ivanovich said ms zhang carried four mobile phones, a laptop, an external hard drive and a thumb drive containing a  computer-virus , but no swim suit.  trump must share mar-a-lago visitor logtrump's mar-a-lago cited for food safety'trump cheats at the highest level' in the court document, mr ivanovich notes that ms zhang "freely and without difficulty conversed" in english, becoming "verbally aggressive" with authorities as the investigation progressed.  the secret service said in a statement that it "does not determine who is invited or welcome at mar-a-lago; this is the responsibility of the host entity.  "the mar-a-lago club management determines which members and guests are granted access to the property." ms zhang's lawyer has so far declined comment.  she will remain in custody until a hearing next week.  if convicted, she could face a maximum of five years in prison.  a taiwanese company that makes chips for apple's iphone is back in full production after being infected with  malware  at the weekend. the taiwan semiconductor manufacturing company (tsmc) had to shut down parts of its factories.  it said the attack had featured a "mutation" of the  ransomware   ransomware . the manufacturing giant denied that it had been hacked and blamed an error during the installation of a new tool that had not been taken offline first. chief executive cc wei told reporters he was "shocked and surprised" that the attack had taken place. "it's impossible that humans would never make mistakes and we have changed the system to automatically detect [the computer-virus ] and such a mistake would never be made again," he told reuters. the company did not comment on where the  malware  may have originated. tsmc's other clients include nvidia and qualcomm. it is often listed as one of the world's largest semiconductor manufacturers. "the issues suffered by tsmc remind us that any organisation, even those working at the forefront of technology development, can fall victim to  malware ," said thomas nuth, director of product at cyber-security company nozomi networks. "while downtime can be a frustrating inconvenience for most, when it targets the manufacturing process the results can be exceptionally expensive." police have seized thousands of computers running one of the most dangerous hacking networks worldwide. the emotet network obtains access to victims' computers, via malicious email attachments, then sells it to criminals who install more dangerous  malware . police from the uk, eu, us and canada worked together to "disrupt" emotet. europol called it "one of most significant  malicious-bot s of the past decade" and one of the main "door openers" for computer systems worldwide. "once this unauthorised access was established, these were sold to other top-level criminal groups to deploy further illicit activities such data theft and extortion through  ransomware ," it said. dmitry smilyanets, from recorded future, said: "even if the creator and his support and operators are not arrested, they likely will not try to rebuild. "they have enough cash to retire in peace - or start a new criminal adventure. "a working  malicious-bot  is a very complicated and gentle system. "if more than a half of the infrastructure is not working, it's safe to say bye-bye." emotet was initially a banking  spyware , designed to spy on victims' computers and steal login details. victims would receive an apparently important word document marked for their attention.  when opened, it would ask them to "enable macros" - a seemingly innocent feature built into microsoft word that actually opened their computer up to attackers. lotem finkelstein, of check point software, said it had been tracking emotet for years. "the most successful and prevalent  malware  of 2020 by a long way", he said, it had, over the course of the year, sent  phishing  emails with more than 150,000 different subject lines and 100,000 file names for the attachments. "it constantly adjusted its  phishing  emails to victims' interests and global events - for example, the covid-19 pandemic or major shopping seasons such as black friday," mr finkelstein said. and although the europol announcement may seem "abstract", it would protect "the public from cyber-threats that have caused losses of millions, if not more, of dollars".  the porn habit of an employee at the us geological survey (usgs) led to a government network becoming infected with  malware , an official report has revealed. the employee, who has not been named, had "an extensive history of visiting adult pornography websites". investigators found  malware  on many of the 9,000 pages he or she accessed. the us office of the inspector general has recommended that the usgs blacklist "rogue" websites. "our analysis confirmed that many of the pornographic images were subsequently saved to an unauthorised usb device and personal android cell phone," the report explained as well as government computers, the employee's personal mobile was also found to be infected. reports of the case were picked up by news site techcrunch, which confirmed that the earth resources observation and science center (eros) does not maintain any classified networks. the site also reported that the  malware  in question was designed to steal data from infected computers and was "associated" with  ransomware  attacks. usgs employees are advised not to connect usb devices or mobile phones to government computers - though usb connections are not disabled. an it policy that prevents usb use should be implemented, the us department of the interior suggested. hundreds of uk companies have been compromised as part of a global campaign linked to chinese hackers. cyber-security firm eset said more than 500 email servers in the uk may have been hacked, and many companies are not aware they are victims of the attack. it comes as governments around the world warn organisations to secure their systems. but some experts fear it may be too late, as at least 10 hacking teams are capitalising on the chaos. the uk's national cyber security centre has joined us authorities in issuing warnings about the hack, but says it is still assessing the situation for uk businesses. meanwhile, the norwegian cyber-authority is actively scanning for at-risk companies in the country and warning them directly. the hacking campaign was first announced by microsoft on 2 march and blamed on a chinese government-backed hacking group called hafnium. microsoft said the group was using four never-before-seen hacking techniques to infiltrate the email systems of us companies. the attackers targeted the popular email system microsoft exchange server, used by large corporations and public bodies across the world. us warns of 'active threat' over microsoft attackeu bank authority hit by microsoft email hackmicrosoft email server hacks put biden in a bind microsoft released software updates for the so called "zero-day" exploits and urged customers to install them to protect themselves. however, the hacking has escalated from straightforward espionage to crisis levels, with some reports estimating tens of thousands of organisations could be affected. according to cyber-security researchers at eset, as many as 10 different hacking groups are now actively using the zero-days exploits to target companies in 115 different countries.  cyber-researchers at fireeye also confirmed they had detected multiple groups, likely to be based in china, using the exploit in different waves. "as always, it is complex but it is very likely that hafnium gifted these 'zero days' to government-sanctioned groups to actively use the flaws once they were rumbled," jake moore at eset said. "the race is now on for all of those affected to patch immediately and then painstakingly check for any recent compromises and make sure no webshells are installed on the servers." a webshell is a piece of computer code that can act like a backdoor into a computer network.  once installed, hackers have a foothold in a network and can either steal or spy on email messages, or use the access to launch more crippling cyber-attacks. globally, eset says it has detected the backdoors on 5,000 separate servers - and more than 500 of them are in the uk. cyber-security responders are racing to find out which companies have been hacked, and remove the webshells to kick the hackers out of their systems. cyberguard technologies says it is dealing with 42 separate cases where hackers have installed webshells, with the number rising by the hour. the companies range from financial institutions, manufacturing and retail. sean tickle, head of cyberguard, said: "it's widespread and very much a case of hackers hosing their attacks at as many targets as they can before companies can secure their systems. "it only takes someone to alter this approach to drop a more malicious  malware  package and we're going to see some real hurt for the companies that fall behind.  "there's already rumblings that these shells are being used, and i think we're going to see mass  ransomware  attacks happen as a second wave of this." apps from a well-known cyber-security firm were taken down from the mac app store by apple after they were found to export users' browser histories. several anti- malware  apps made by trend micro have since been updated by the cyber-security company. however, trend micro strongly denied allegations that the apps had been "stealing user data" and sending it to a server in china. the apps' behaviour was noticed by a security researcher last week. three apps, dr cleaner, dr antivirus and app uninstall, made by trend micro, were removed from the apple mac app store, though the tech giant has not publicly confirmed why. "reports that trend micro is 'stealing user data' and sending them to an unidentified server in china are absolutely false," said trend micro in a statement. it added that it had completed an initial investigation which had confirmed that several apps, including dr cleaner and dr antivirus, had collected and uploaded "a small snapshot of the browser history on a one-time basis" at installation. the firm said this was done for "security purposes", in order to analyse whether a user had recently encountered  spyware  or other threats. however, it added that it had decided to remove this function from the apps. in an update to the statement, trend micro said, "we apologise to our community for concern they might have felt and can reassure all that their data is safe and at no point was compromised." logs of user browser history, previously held for three months, have now been deleted. the bbc has contacted apple for comment. the uk's competition and markets authority has launched an investigation into whether apple's terms for app developers are anti-competitive. it follows a series of complaints, including a high-profile one from epic games, the developer of fortnite. some developers are unhappy that they are forced to distribute apps to iphones and ipads via the app store, and the commission apple takes. apple said its terms were "fair and equal". the investigation will consider whether apple has a dominant position in the distribution of apps on its devices and look at whether it imposes unfair terms on developers. andrea coscelli, chief executive of the cma said: "millions of us use apps every day to check the weather, play a game or order a takeaway. so complaints that apple is using its market position to set terms which are unfair or may restrict competition and choice - potentially causing customers to lose out when buying and using apps - warrant careful scrutiny." in response, apple said: "we believe in thriving and competitive markets where any great idea can flourish. the app store has been an engine of success for app developers, in part because of the rigorous standards we have in place - applied fairly and equally to all developers - to protect customers from  malware  and to prevent rampant data collection without their consent.  "we look forward to working with the uk competition and markets authority to explain how our guidelines for privacy, security and content have made the app store a trusted marketplace for both consumers and developers."  fortnite-maker sues apple and google in ukapple fires back in fortnite app store battle epic games has launched a legal action against apple and google in the us, after both removed fortnite from their smartphone app stores. the row centred on the up to 30% cut both the tech giants take when people buy an app, subscription or in-app item on the apple app store or the google play store, as well as the difficulty in launching a mobile app without submitting to both companies' app store rules. in august epic bypassed the apple and google stores to let fortnite players buy virtual currency at a lower price, directly from it, resulting in an immediate ban from both stores. the row has attracted the attention of both regulators and politicians. arizona's state house of representatives passed a law this week which prohibits apple and google, and any other app store exceeding one million downloads, from demanding developers based in the state exclusively use its app stores. the law also covers users living in the state, but it is not yet clear how it will affect companies headquartered in other states but conducting sales in arizona. it will now be handed to the state senate for approval. in europe, apple is facing two investigations into whether it has broken competition rules, one of which relates to its app store policies. a british cyber-security researcher credited with stopping the spread of the  ransomware  computer-virus  faces four more charges related to separate  malware  he is alleged to have created. marcus hutchins, who denies the charges, has asked his twitter followers to help with his legal fees.  mr hutchins was arrested at las vegas airport in august last year after he left the black hat conference. he was accused of creating a piece of  malware  known as kronos. kronos was designed to steal banking credentials. according to a new court filing, mr hutchins is now also accused of creating a second piece of  malware , known as upas kit. he is also accused of distributing it with the help of another person. according to the court document, the  malware  was created in 2012 to be installed silently and not alert anti-virus software. it is alleged to have collected personal information. mr hutchins's lawyer, brian klein, described the new indictment as "meritless". the cyber-security researcher is originally from ilfracombe, devon, and works for la-based company kryptos logic. he shot to fame after helping to stall the  ransomware   ransomware  cyber-attack that struck the nhs and other organisations in may 2017.  the cyber-attack targeted 150 countries and locked down computers, demanding a $300 (£223) fee to restore files. mr hutchins was granted bail on 5 august after $30,000 (£23,000) was raised by friends and family.  malware  that displays explicit pornographic adverts has been found lurking in 60 apps available on google's play store.  many of the apps infected with the  malware  are aimed at children, and some have been downloaded hundreds of thousands of times. the  malware  also promotes fake security programs and tries to get people to sign up to expensive services. google said it had now removed all the compromised apps from the play store. the "adultswine"  malware  was discovered by researchers from checkpoint software, which said apps harbouring the code had been downloaded at least three million times. infected apps include add-ons for the hugely popular pocket edition of minecraft as well as apps themed around well known disney characters. the checkpoint researchers uncovered the infected apps as well as the infrastructure used to pipe offensive adverts and other offers to victims.  reviews of infected apps on google's store warned about the presence of the pop-up adverts. checkpoint said adultswine was a "nasty nuisance" that was "most certainly damaging on both an emotional and financial level". in a statement, google said the compromised apps had been purged from the play store and it had shut down the accounts of the developers that had created them. it added that it would "continue to show strong warnings to anyone that has installed them". equifax has taken down a customer help web page amid concerns over  malware  linked to the site. the firm said it took down the link for credit report assistance "out of an abundance of caution". the problem did not compromise its systems or affect the dispute portal, the firm added in a later update. equifax is still reeling from discovery of a breach that compromised personal data of more than 145.5 million americans and about 8,000 canadians. equifax has also said a file containing names and birthdates of 15.2 million people in the uk were accessed. the firm is contacting nearly 700,000 of them, because more serious information was compromised. the new issue involved a webpage that asked visitors to download fraudulent adobe flash updates, according to ars technica.  the problem was first publicly identified by an independent security analyst. equifax said it had traced the problem to a third-party vendor it used to track website data and removed that vendor's code from the site. "equifax can confirm that its systems were not compromised and that the reported issue did not affect our consumer online dispute portal," the company said.  a scottish health board has apologised after a  malware  attack meant appointments and procedures had to be cancelled. nhs lanarkshire also warned patients not to attend hospital unless their visit is "essential" and said waiting times may be longer than usual. but the board's chief executive, calum campbell, said the source of the  malware  had now been indentified. investigations are ongoing into how the  malware  was able to infect the network. it was not clear if the health service had been deliberately targeted. the cyber attack started on friday. operations were cancelled and the work of gps was disrupted. the health board said it "took immediate action" to put a solution in place and minimise disruption. on saturday morning, nhs lanarkshire confirmed the problems were still affecting its staff bank system, which it uses to ensure shifts are filled on wards and clinics. it asked staff to call a temporary number to check if they were needed to cover shifts over the next 72 hours. mr campbell said staff had been working hard to minimise the impact on patients and contingency plans had been put in place to ensure services could be delivered while the it issues were resolved. "unfortunately a small number of procedures and appointments have been cancelled as a result of the incident," he said. "i would like to apologise to anyone who has been affected by this disruption, however i can assure you that work is already underway to reappoint patients." "the majority of services have been restored but it may take some time to get services running as normal. "we would ask patients who are attending hospital or out-of-hours services over the weekend to bear with us as they may experience longer than waits than usual." nhs lanarkshire was one of the worst-hit health authorities in scotland in the widespread cyber-attacks in may. however, a spokeswoman for the health board said the current issues were "not on the same scale". she said a number of appointments and procedures had been postponed as a result of the current issues, but there were "no concerns around emergency treatments". nhs lanarkshire's hospitals include monklands, wishaw general and hairmyres. the booming price of bitcoin and other crypto-coins has kicked off a gold rush among malicious hackers keen to cash in, warn security firms. many sites are now harbouring code that secretly uses a visitors' computer to mine the valuable e-cash coins. the code is inserted by hackers who exploit poor site security or web software bugs. the problem has led google engineers to consider putting protections against mining in the chrome browser. earlier this month, hundreds of websites were found to be running code created by the coin-hive project. this let the web domains generate coins for the monero crypto-currency by using the processing power of visitors' computers.  while some sites had put the coin-hive code on their site themselves, many others had been hacked to host the short script.  bitcoin, and almost every other crypto-coin, works by using lots of different computers to log and verify who has done what with the electronic coins. in return for carrying out these computational tasks, called mining, users are regularly rewarded with new coins.  palo alto networks said it had found coin-hive on almost 150 separate domains. the most popular locations for the code were porn, video and file-sharing sites.  "the use of coin-hive or similar mining services is itself not a malicious activity," said yuchen zhou and colleagues at security company palo alto. "it is how they are used that makes the sites malicious." the wide uptake of coin-hive and the surging price of bitcoin, now worth about $5,630 (£4,288) per coin, has led to the creation of many "copycat" coin-mining systems.  security news website bleeping computer has now found 10 separate "clones" of coin-hive that mine different types of coins for their creators. "most are behaving like  malware , intruding on users' computers and using resources without permission," wrote catalin cimpanu on the bleeping computer site. on portable devices, the code can drain batteries very quickly. some of the copycat coin-mining programs specifically target popular website creation and admin systems such as wordpress. others, said mr cimpanu, are written in javascript and their creators try to insert them wherever they can. many anti-virus firms have updated their software so they now spot and disable mining software. also, coin-hive has now launched an authorised version of its software which only mines coins if users give their explicit permission. the growing number of coin miners kicked off a discussion among google engineers working on the firm's chrome browser about how to tackle it.  "yes, we should do something about it," wrote ojan vafai, a chrome engineer on the forums where browser changes are debated.  mr vafai suggested getting the browser to watch for situations when mining software grabs lots of processing power from a computer or portable device.  if the browser spots this activity it would "aggressively throttle" browser activity to limit how much number-crunching power can be grabbed. users would also be warned about what was happening.  the change would let users see when their browser was being used for mining and let them choose if it continued. blocking the activity any other way would be difficult, he said. "i'm effectively suggesting we add a permission here, but it would have unusual triggering conditions," he wrote. "it only triggers when the page is doing a likely bad thing."  the mac and ios software developer panic has had the source code for several of its apps stolen. panic founder steven frank admitted in a blog post that it happened after he downloaded an infected copy of the video encoding tool handbrake. he said there was no sign that any customer data was accessed and that panic's web server was not affected. users have been warned to download panic's apps only from its website or the apple app store.  panic is the creator of web editing and file transfer apps coda and transmit, and co-published the video game firewatch with developers campo santo. on 2 may handbrake was hacked, with the mac version of the app on one of the site's download servers replaced by a malicious copy. the infected app was discovered and removed on 6 may. in what mr frank called "a case of extraordinarily bad luck", he downloaded the malicious version of handbrake and launched it "without stopping to wonder why handbrake would need admin privileges… when it hadn't before". "and that was that, my mac was completely, entirely compromised in three seconds or less."  ransomware  and the  malware  hall of fameglossary:  malware , patches and worms malware  attack: how to protect yourself online the attacker then used his password to access other private files and copy the source code for several of panic's products stored on the infected computer. the theft was confirmed when panic received an email containing some of the files and demanding a ransom for the return of the complete code. "we're working on the assumption that there's no point in paying," mr frank wrote, saying that "the attacker has no reason to keep their end of the bargain". the fbi is investigating the incident and panic has been working with apple to make sure that no malicious or fake versions of the apps get into the app store. "i feel like a monumental idiot for having fallen for this," mr frank admitted. "it's a good reminder though — no matter how experienced you might be with computers, you're human and mistakes are easily made."  2017 has been a bumper year for  malware  outbreaks. we had the  ransomware  worm causing havoc around the world for days, followed most recently by the petya outbreak. but they are not the first to spread so far, so fast. the history of technology and the net has been regularly punctuated by outbreaks and infections.   in 1988, just as the internet was starting to catch on, computer science student robert t morris was curious about just how big it had grown. he wrote a small program that travelled around, logging the servers it visited. bugs in his code made it scan the net very aggressively so every server ended up running multiple copies of the worm. each copy used up a little bit of processing power so the servers gradually slowed to a halt. the scanning traffic clogged the net making it almost unusable. it took days to clean up the infection. mr morris was caught and found guilty of computer fraud and was fined $10,050 (£7,785). these days, he is a computer scientist at the massachussetts institute of technology (mit). the morris worm has one strange parallel with  ransomware . mr morris was the son of the nsa's chief scientist and the  ransomware  worm is based on code stolen from the nsa.  in may 2000, millions of windows users found endless copies of an email bearing the subject line iloveyou in their inboxes. it spread so far and so fast thanks to the booby-trapped file attached to it. opening the file fired up the small program it contained which sent a copy of the same message to all the addresses found in a victim's address book. it was also helped to spread because all those messages appeared to come from someone a recipient knew. and the subject line made people curious too. iloveyou rattled around the world for almost two weeks racking up more than 50 million infections. high-profile victims included the cia, pentagon and uk parliament.  philippine students reonel ramones and onel de guzman were found to be the creators of iloveyou. they escaped prosecution because there were no computer misuse laws in the philippines at that time. active in july 2001 and named after the fizzy pop being drunk by the researchers who found it, this worm targeted web servers running microsoft iis software.  it caused severe disruption and many websites, small businesses and larger firms were knocked offline for a while.  no-one has ever been named as code red's creator although on servers it compromised it displayed a message suggesting it originated in china.  like  ransomware , code red exploited a known bug and caught out servers that had not been updated with a patch.  this worm emerged in january 2003 and was so virulent that it is believed to have slowed down traffic across the entire net as it spread. slammer was a tiny program, roughly 376 bytes, that did little more than create random net addresses and then send itself to those places. if it hit a machine running a vulnerable version of microsoft's sql server, that machine got infected and then started spraying out more copies seeking more victims. the slowdown was caused by net routers struggling to cope with the massive amounts of traffic slammer generated while seeking out new hosts.  again, a patch was available for the bug it exploited but many people had not applied it despite it being available for six months. this windows email worm from january 2004 is believed to hold the current record for spreading fastest - hardly surprising given that it was reputedly created by professional spammers.  it worked so well thanks to a clever bit of social engineering. the email bearing the worm was designed to look like an error message. this fiction was aided by the message's attachment which purported to hold a copy of the email that did not arrive.  opening the attachment kicked off the malicious code that re-sent the same message to everyone in a victim's address book. november 2008 saw the arrival of this virulent worm which hit up to 15 million servers running microsoft software. it ran rampant and caught out hospitals, governments, the armed forces and many businesses.  the outbreak was so bad that microsoft offered a $250,000 reward for any information leading to the identification of the worm's creator. no-one has ever been identified as its originator.  a patch closing the loophole it exploited was released by microsoft about a month after it appeared. even today, 10 years on, data traffic generated by machines infected with conficker regularly turn up.  the comments section of britney spears' instagram account has been used by cyber-thieves to co-ordinate attacks. security firm eset found the gang controlled its  malware , called turla, by posting comments about images in the singer's gallery. the comments looked like spam but once transformed by code in the computer-virus , directed victims to other sites. several other compromised websites were also being used to track victims and spread the  malware . turla has been active since 2014 and sought to catch out government workers, diplomats and other officials, said eset researcher jean-ian boutin. it is believed to be run by a hacker group working for the russian state.  most often, he said, turla's handlers compromised websites that targets would be likely to visit.  one compromised server asked visitors to install a booby-trapped extension for the firefox web browser.  digital detective work by mr boutin revealed that the command and control (c&c) channel set up between the creators of the extension and victims' machines was on the singer's instagram page.  the malicious extension searched for comments that, when digitally transformed, matched a specific value. these were then converted into a website address that the compromised machine visited to report in or to update the malicious code they harboured.  very few comments posted to the instagram account had the key characteristics - suggesting that turla's creators were testing or refining the control system. mr boutin said using social media in this way made "life harder for defenders". "firstly, it is difficult to distinguish malicious traffic to social media from legitimate traffic," he wrote. "secondly, it gives the attackers more flexibility when it comes to changing the c&c address as well as erasing all traces of it." mr boutin added that he had been in touch with mozilla, which was working on ways to stop extensions for firefox being compromised in this way.   in a statement, instagram said: "we are aware of this activity and have taken action against the responsible accounts." more than 36 million android devices may have been infected with ad-click  malware , a security firm has said. researchers at check point said they found the  malware , dubbed judy, on about 50 apps in google's play store. the apps contain code that sends infected devices to a target webpage, where they generate fraudulent clicks on the site's adverts to make money for its creators. the infected apps have been removed from the play store. more than 40 of the apps were from the south korean developer, kiniwini, which publishes games to the play store under the name enistudio. the games, all of which feature a character called judy, have been downloaded between four million and 18 million times. the malicious code was also found in several apps from other developers. "it is possible that one borrowed code from the other, knowingly or unknowingly," said check point. between them, the infected apps may have been downloaded up to 36.5 million times. check point said it did not know for how long the malicious versions of the apps had been available, but all the judy games had been updated since march this year. the oldest of the apps from other developers was last updated in april 2016, which check point suggested, means that "the malicious code hid for a long time on the play store undetected". because it is unclear when the code was introduced to each of the apps, the actual number of devices likely to have been infected is unknown. the apps got past the play store's protection system, google bouncer, because they do not contain the malicious part of the judy code. once downloaded, the apps silently register the device to a remote server, which responds by sending back the malicious ad-click software to open a hidden website and generate revenue for the site by clicking on the adverts. this kind of delivery "has become commonplace", andrew smith, a senior lecturer in networking at the open university, told the bbc. "there are many tools available, and the advantage is that the  malware  distributor can change them remotely, which makes it difficult for anti- malware  software to keep up." the apps also display numerous adverts themselves, some of which cannot be closed until a user has clicked on them. a russian cybersecurity firm has issued a warning about a spate of remotely coordinated attacks on cash machines. hacks of banks' centralised systems had made groups of machines issue cash simultaneously, a process known as "touchless jackpotting", said group ib. the machines had not been physically tampered with, it said, but "money mules" had waited to grab the cash. affected countries are said to include armenia, estonia, the netherlands, poland, russia, spain and the uk. but the company declined to name any specific banks. dmitriy volkov from group ib told the bbc a successful attack could net its perpetrators up to $400,000 (£320,000) at a time. "we have seen such attacks in russia since 2013," he said. "the threat is critical. attackers get access to an internal bank's network and critical information systems. that allows them to rob the bank." two cash machine manufacturers, diebold nixdorf and ncr corp, told reuters they were aware of the threat. "they are taking this to the next level in being able to attack a large number of machines at once," said senior director nicholas billett, from diebold nixdorf.  "they know they will be caught fairly quickly, so they stage it in such a way that they can get cash from as many atms as they can before they get shut down." a recent report by europol warned of the rise of cash-machine-related  malware , although it said "skimming" - using hardware to steal card information at the machine itself - was still more common. "the new method is being done by somehow gaining access to the banks' central systems and infecting whole communities of atms simultaneously, hence multiplying the amount of money that can be stolen in a short time," said surrey university's cybersecurity expert prof alan woodward. because criminals were collecting the cash in person, it made the crime more difficult to trace, he added. "the classic way of solving online financial crime is to 'follow the money' - but when you can no longer do this, it is very hard to find out who is behind it, even though the evidence suggests it is a very limited number of groups that have started perpetrating this type of crime." security experts say a sharp increase in  ransomware  attacks is in part a result of how easy the  malware  is to acquire.researchers at cylance and alienvault were able to find off-the-shelf  ransomware  using a normal search engine, which could then be used to lock victims' computer files and blackmail them.hiding out among the net's criminalshow long until ukraine is hacked again?pay your fare using a 3d face mapcash machine hacked in five minutessee more at click's website and @bbcclick.this week bbc news is taking a close look at all aspects of cyber-security. the coverage is timed to coincide with the two biggest shows in the security calendar - black hat and def con. follow all our coverage via this link app-based guides for games, including fifa and pokemon go, were used to target more than 500,000 android users with  malware , a cyber-security company has said. the apps, discovered on the google play store, were designed to take control of devices before downloading  malware . unwanted ads could then be displayed to users, for example, according to researchers at check point. google did not respond to a request for comment. more than 40 guide apps for popular games were found to be capable of delivering the  malware  to users' devices, check point said. it is thought that the apps were downloaded between 528,000 and 1.8 million times, though it is not known how many of these downloads resulted in the deployment of  malware . "since the actual apps do not contain any malicious code themselves, it's very hard to trace," said daniel padon, at check point. he added that when check point had notified google about the apps they had been removed. but the researchers said that they continued to find more examples on the play store. some of the apps were made available as long ago as november last year. when one is downloaded, it asks users for device admin permission to ensure the software cannot be deleted. it then attempts to establish a connection with a command and control server, turning the device into a malicious-bot in a  malicious-bot  - a network of devices controlled from afar.  malware  can then be downloaded. mr padon told the bbc that this could allow hackers to send illegitimate pop-up ads, use the device as part of a d dos-attack , or snoop on data sent via the device's network. he said mobile  malicious-bot s were becoming more common.  "we, other security vendors and google have found different mobile  malicious-bot s spreading via the play store," mr padon said. "this is a hard thing to stop - it could have a devastating impact." the approach could indeed be dangerous, agreed nikolaos chrysaidos at cyber-security firm avast. "at the moment, it seems like the cyber-criminals behind the threat are only interested in making money from ads," he said. "the threat currently has very basic functionalities [...] however, there is nothing stopping the threat from becoming more sophisticated in the future." a man who told the fbi he had remotely accessed hundreds of webcams to spy on people across the world should not be extradited, a judge has ruled. christopher taylor, 57 and from wigan, tricked 772 people in 39 countries into downloading  malware  from 2012 to 2015. in 2016, after a us college discovered the programme, he told police and fbi he used it to take images and videos. however, district judge michael fanning ruled that extradition to the us "would not be in the interests of justice". westminster magistrates court was told the married father-of-three was wanted in the us to face trial on an indictment alleging one offence of wire fraud and two of computer fraud. the court heard remote access tools were found on mr taylor's computer along with 772 files - one per victim - containing hundreds of saved webcam images, "including images of people in various stages of undress and involved in sexual activity". his lawyer ben cooper qc argued that as "only 7% of the victims were based in the us at the time with 93% outside of the us", including several in the uk, mr taylor should face proceedings in england, where a criminal investigation has yet been launched. he added in written submissions that the 57-year-old had not used the  malware  for "sexual gratification" or targeted anyone in particular, but had an "obsessive interest in computers and hacking". in a written ruling, judge fanning said none of the people whose webcams were accessed were aware of mr taylor's "illicit observation of them [and] certainly, none of them consented to it". however, he said he did "find extradition would not be in the interests of justice", but added that the us government "can appeal or they may choose to provide evidence to the authorities in the uk, so you can be prosecuted here". daniel sternberg, representing the us government, indicated there would be an appeal. mr taylor was granted conditional bail. why not follow bbc north west on facebook, twitter and instagram? you can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk the "shadow brokers" hacker group has released  malware  allegedly created by the us national security agency (nsa). the group, which earlier tried to sell the  encryption  cache of hacking tools in an online auction, released a password for it via a blog on 8 april. some cyber-security experts have said some of the  malware  is real, but old. the nsa has not commented on the hacker group or the material that was released over the weekend. the shadow brokers said they had published the password as a "protest" about us president donald trump. the group wanted "america to be great again", the blog added. it criticised, among other things, "[steve] bannon's removal from the [national security council]" and the "us military strike on syria". a list of alleged nsa hacking targets and the  malware  allegedly installed at them was also included in the release, according to some cyber-security experts. the shadow brokers say they are "not fans of russia or putin", but some experts have suggested the group may have links with the russian government. "russia is quickly responding to the missile attacks on syria with the release of the dump file password that was previously withheld," said jake williams, chief executive of cyber-security firm rendition infosec in a blog.   a similar opinion was shared on twitter by dan gonzales, a senior scientist at the rand corporation think tank. the shadow brokers were "probably a front for or infiltrated by #russia #cyber groups," he said. neither commentator gave any evidence to support such claims. russian officials have not commented but have strenuously denied involvement in other hacking cases associated with the us. "if russia had stolen the hacking tools, it would be senseless to publicise the theft, let alone put them up for sale," cyber-security expert james bamford wrote in an article for reuters news agency. he suggested that the shadow brokers could be an nsa "insider".  in a separate case, a series of cyber-attacks on 40 targets in 16 countries have been linked to a cache of hacking tools, according to cybersecurity firm symantec. the cache, known as vault7, was published online by wikileaks and said to contain  malware  used by the central intelligence agency (cia). the agency has not confirmed whether it authored the tools. the  malware  analysed by symantec had been used to infect computers in europe, asia and the middle east. "on one occasion a computer in the united states was compromised but, following infection, an uninstaller was launched within hours, which may indicate this victim was infected unintentionally," symantec noted. the  malware  contained logs documenting changes that closely mirrored such records in vault7  malware , the firm claimed. a russian man faces up to 10 years in jail for spreading a  computer-virus  that cost victims more than $500m (£401m). mark vartanyan, 29, developed and distributed the citadel  spyware , which lets criminals steal bank account details and hold files to ransom. us prosecutors said it had infected about 11 million computers worldwide.  he pleaded guilty to one count of computer fraud, in a court in atlanta, after being extradited from norway. launched in 2011, citadel was marketed on invitation-only, russian-language internet forums used by cybercriminals. its users had targeted the computer networks of major financial and government institutions around the world, prosecutors said.  vartanyan admitted to the "development, improvement, maintenance and distribution" of citadel between 2012 and 2014 while living in ukraine and norway. operating under the alias kolypto, he uploaded "numerous electronic files" that consisted of citadel  malware , components, updates and patches, as well as customer information. earlier in march, david levalley, special agent at the fbi atlanta office, said vartanyan's arrest removed "a significant player" from the resources available to cybercriminals. "we must continue to impose real costs on criminals who believe they are protected by geographic boundaries and can prey on the american people," he said. vartanyan agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for a reduced prison term. he will be sentenced in june.  in september 2015, a us court sentenced russian citizen dimitry belorossov to four years and six months in prison after he admitted distributing and installing citadel on to computers. the department of justice said its investigation into the creator of citadel continued.  iran is running two surveillance operations in cyber-space, targeting more than 1,000 dissidents, according to a leading cyber-security company. the efforts were directed against individuals in iran and 12 other countries, including the uk and us, check point said. it said the two groups involved were using new techniques to install  spyware  on targets' pcs and mobile devices. and this was then being used to steal call recordings and media files. one of the groups, known as domestic kitten or advanced-persistent-threat -50, is accused of tricking people into downloading  malware  on to mobile phones by a variety of means including: repackaging an existing version of an authentic video game found on the google play storemimicking an app for a restaurant in tehranoffering a fake mobile-security appproviding a compromised app that publishes articles from a local news agencysupplying an infected wallpaper app containing pro-islamic state imagerymasquerading as an android application store to download further software the american-israeli company's researchers documented 1,200 victims being targeted by the campaign, living in seven countries. there had been more than 600 successful infections, it said. the second group, known as infy or prince of persia, is said to spy on the home and work pcs of dissidents in 12 countries, extracting sensitive data after tricking people into opening malicious email attachments. the iranian government has not commented on the report. domestic kitten's operation was first identified in 2018. and check point said there was evidence it had run at least 10 campaigns since 2017. four of these were still active, with the most recent beginning in november 2020.  and it was using an iranian blog site, telegram channels and text messages to lure people into installing its infected software, which the researchers have dubbed furball, which could: record calls and other soundstrack the device's locationcollect device identifiers,grab text messages and call logssteal media files, including videos and photos,obtain a list of other installed applicationssteal files from external storage the 600 successful infections are said to have included dissidents, opposition forces and people belonging to the kurdish ethnic minority in: iranthe usgreat britainpakistanafghanistanturkeyuzbekistan the other group, infy, is said to have been operating as far back as 2007.  its most recent activity had targeted pcs, with fake emails with attractive content, usually with an attached document, check point said. one example provided was of a document apparently about loans being offered to disabled veterans. once the document was opened, a spying tool was installed and sensitive data stolen, the company said. two documents recently used are said to have included a photo of an iranian governor, with alleged contact details. the researchers said infy's capabilities were "far superior" to most other known iranian campaigns, thanks to its ability to be highly selective about its targets and to have generally have gone undetected. "it is clear that the iranian government is investing significant resources into cyber-operations," check point cyber-research head yaniv balmas said. "the operators of these iranian cyber-espionage campaigns seem to be completely unaffected by any counter-activities done by others, even though both campaigns had been revealed and even stopped in the past. "they have simply restarted." the association of british insurers (abi) has defended the inclusion of  ransomware  payments in first-party cyber-insurance policies. it said insurance was "not an alternative" to doing everything possible to first minimise the risk. however, it added that firms could face financial ruin without the cover. prof ciaran martin, former head of the national cyber security centre, said the uk needed to rethink its policies on  ransomware .  ransomware  is a form of  malware  in which infected computers are remotely locked by cyber-criminals, who then demand a ransom, often in the form of bitcoin, to unlock them and return the data they hold. there are many examples of businesses and public bodies which have chosen to pay because they do not have the data backed up, or cannot afford - or do not have time - to rebuild their systems from scratch. the guardian reported that prof martin, now at oxford university's blavatnik school of government, said he believed insurers were "funding organised crime" by accepting  ransomware  claims, but he told the bbc the issue of how to tackle  ransomware  was far broader than just the insurance sector. while official advice is not to pay the demand, it is not illegal to do so in the uk, he said. "i have some sympathy with insurers, because as long as it's legal, there are incentives to pay." while the ransom demand may be high, the alternative impact can also be devastating. when the global aluminium producer norsk hydro was attacked in 2019, it cost the firm around £45m, and its profits in the immediate aftermath plummeted by 82%, reported reuters.   norsk hydro refused to pay the demand, which would arguably have been cheaper - but it did have insurance. a spokesman for the abi said insurers do require that "reasonable precautions" are taken to prevent cyber-attacks from succeeding in the first place, just as cars and houses require security measures in place to deter thieves. "some might argue that any insurance that covers against a criminal act could lull the policyholder into a false sense of security," he said. prof martin said he did not think that banning  ransomware  insurance claims would necessarily solve the problem. "but it's worth a serious piece of consultation because if we continue as we are, things will get worse," he said.  ransomware  called  ransomware  has spread across 150 countries, earned its makers about $50,000 (£39,000) so far and in doing so, thrown some hospitals in england in to disarray as doctors could not access patient records. it was the story of the weekend and is still ongoing - but if the terms involved were new to you, read on.  malware  short for " malware ", this is a programme written to disrupt computers or the networks between them.  ransomware  falls in to this category.  ransomware   a programme that scrambles a computer's files, demanding payment before they can be opened again.  ransomware  asked for $300 in a virtual currency.  ransomware  is not new, but  ransomware  spread to more computers than previous  ransomware  attacks - and, because it hit computers used in hospital trusts, had a bigger impact that previous attempts. computer-virus  a type of  malware  that spreads when people do things like inserting usb sticks with computer-virus es in them, and downloading infected files. these are the reason why we are all warned not to open attachments in unexpected emails. worm a type of computer-virus  that can spread from computer to computer by itself. is my computer at risk?security blogger halts  ransomware  'by accident'should you pay the ransom? vulnerability a flaw in software that can be exploited to disrupt computers or networks patch a software update that fixes a vulnerability. these do not exist for operating systems that are no longer supported by their makers. operating system the important software that makes the whole computer run, from the user interface to memory, security, and applications. this might be ios on an iphone, android on other smartphones, mac os x, linux or windows. companies release new operating systems every few years; microsoft's latest is windows 10, which followed windows 8.1. windows xp, was first released in 2001 - a long time ago in technology terms - and microsoft stopped supporting it in 2014. that means they stopped issuing security updates for vulnerabilities. bitcoin a digital currency, in which the  ransomware  makers asked for their ransom payments. it is easy to keep offline identities private when using bitcoin. the value of the currency fluctuates considerably, making it difficult to meet a ransom payment exactly.  kill switch  a way to shut down the spread of a computer-virus  or worm.  a 22-year-old security specialist from england found  ransomware 's kill switch accidentally while trying to track its spread. but he and others have warned that the people behind  ransomware  could change it to get around the kill switch he found. up to 10 million android smartphones have been infected by  malware  that generates fake clicks for adverts, say security researchers. the software is also surreptitiously installing apps and spying on the browsing habits of victims.  the  malware  is currently making about $300,000 (£232,000) a month for its creators, suggests research. the majority of phones that have been compromised by the  malware  are in china. a spike in the number of phones infected by the  malware  was noticed separately by security companies checkpoint and lookout. the  malware  family is called shedun by lookout but hummingbad by checkpoint  in a blogpost, checkpoint said it had obtained access to the command-and-control servers that oversee infected phones which revealed that hummingbad was now on about 10 million devices. china, india, the philippines and indonesia top the list of nations with most phones infected by the software.  hummingbad is a type of  malware  known as a rootkit that inserts itself deep inside a phone's operating system to help it avoid detection and to give its controllers total control over the handset.  the ability to control phones remotely has been used to click on ads to make them seem more popular than they actually are. the access has also been used to install fake versions of popular apps or spread programs the gang has been paid to promote.  "it can remain persistent even if the user performs a factory reset," wrote kristy edwards from lookout in a blogpost. "it uses its root privileges to install additional apps on to the device, further increasing ad revenue for the authors and defeating uninstall attempts." ms edwards said the recent spike in infections could be driven by the gang behind the  malware  adding more functions or using their access to phones for different purposes. the  malware  gets installed on handsets by exploiting loopholes in older versions of the android operating system known as kitkat and jellybean. the latest version of android is known as marshmallow.  in a statement, google said: ""we've long been aware of this evolving family of  malware  and we're constantly improving our systems that detect it. we actively block installations of infected apps to keep users and their information safe." google released the latest security update for android this month and it tackled more than 108 separate vulnerabilities in the operating system. so far this year, security updates for android have closed more than 270 bugs. an online archive of old computer  malware  has attracted more than 100,000 visitors since it launched four days ago. some of the software showed an animation or messages. others invited the infected user to play a game. many of the computer-virus es were created by "happy hackers" rather than organised criminals, said cybersecurity expert and curator mikko hypponen. the  malware  all dates from the 1980s and 1990s. the versions online have all been stripped of their destructive capabilities, but show the messages they would have displayed within emulator windows. much of the collection is mischievous and colourful in nature, but there was also more sinister  malware  around. "i only chose interesting computer-virus es," mr hypponen said of his picks. his personal favourite is a computer-virus  called casino, which overwrote a crucial part of the computer's file system but took a copy of personal files and then offered the user the opportunity to win them back in a game of jackpot. "casino was a real problem," mr hypponen, who works at security firm f-secure, told the bbc. "at the time the advice was, you lose nothing by playing. in the early 1990s very few people had back-ups so you had lost your files anyway." he said he was surprised by the number of people who felt nostalgic about the old  malware . "most of the  malware  we analyse today is coming from organised criminal groups... and intelligence agencies," mr hyponnen added.  "old school happy hackers who used to write computer-virus es for fun are nowhere to be seen." us federal agencies have launched a criminal investigation into the public release of documents said to detail cia hacking tools, us officials say. they told us media that the fbi and cia were co-ordinating the inquiry after wikileaks published thousands of files.  these carried claims that the cia had developed ways to listen in on smartphone and smart tv microphones. the cia, fbi and white house have declined to comment on the authenticity of the files leaked on tuesday. a cia spokesperson told the bbc on wednesday: "the american public should be deeply troubled by any wikileaks disclosure designed to damage the intelligence community's ability to protect america against terrorists and other adversaries.   "such disclosures not only jeopardise us personnel and operations, but also equip our adversaries with tools and information to do us harm." cia faces huge problem over  malware  claims cia hack:  should we be worried? on wednesday, the us officials - who spoke on the condition of anonymity - told us media that the criminal investigation was looking into how the files came into wikileaks' possession. the inquiry would also try to establish whether the disclosure was a breach from inside or outside the cia, the officials added. the cia has not confirmed whether the documents - said to date between 2013 to 2016 - are real.  but one of its former chiefs was concerned by their publication. "if what i have read is true, then this seems to be an incredibly damaging leak in terms of the tactics, techniques, procedures and tools that were used by the central intelligence agency to conduct legitimate foreign intelligence," ex-cia director michael hayden told the bbc. "in other words, it's made my country and my country's friends less safe." several of the tech firms whose products have been allegedly compromised by the cia gave their first reactions on wednesday. apple said it had already addressed some of the vulnerabilities. "the technology built into today's iphone represents the best data security available to consumers, and we're constantly working to keep it that way," it said. samsung - whose f8000 series of televisions was reportedly compromised - said that "protecting consumers' privacy and the security of our devices is a top priority at samsung". the leaks also claimed that the cia had created  malware  to target pcs running microsoft's windows operating system. "we are aware of the report and are looking into it," a spokesman from microsoft said. google has also reacted to claims that the cia was able to "penetrate, infest and control" android phones due to its discovery and acquisition of "zero day" bugs - previously unknown flaws in the operating system's code. "as we've reviewed the documents, we're confident that security updates and protections in both chrome and android already shield users from many of these alleged vulnerabilities," the firm told the news site recode. "our analysis is ongoing and we will implement any further necessary protections. we've always made security a top priority and we continue to invest in our defences." the world wide web foundation - which campaigns for internet privacy - said the us government needed to issue a detailed response. the wikileaks claims are a prominent talking point in china's media, with many outlets warning chinese citizens to take extra safety precautions. influential regional daily chengdu commercial daily tells readers to "update device software, don't leave tvs on standby, and don't read confidential documents on your phone".  nationalist newspaper global times says that the report "shows the need for cyber rules".  russian media have also given extensive coverage to the claims.  russia's english-language channel rt was quick to point to suggestions that the revelations "could be used to prove that allegations of russian hacking are actually a secret us plot".  russia's main domestic tv channels do not question the claims and insist instead on their likely authenticity. channel one tv says that the "cia has created a cyber bomb", adding that "the scandal is only going to gain momentum".  a technology expert found a hidden kill-switch among the computer code in the computer-virus  that hit organisations around the world on friday. the expert - from the  malware  tech blog - told the bbc's newshour programme how he stumbed on the fix.  malware  lurking in unprotected wi-fi routers is feeding the illicit online market for fake social media "likes".  the "stealthy" linux/moose  malicious-bot  has one goal: infecting connected devices with  malware  in order to create and sell social media credibility. researchers have been tracking the  malicious-bot  since 2015. now they have new research into what they call the "ego market" for fake online fame the  malicious-bot  is feeding.  canadian researchers masarah-cynthia paquet-clouston, a criminologist with the university of montreal, and olivier bilodeau, with cybersecurity consultancy firm  gosecure, are behind the award-winning research into the lucrative world of buying and selling "followers" and "likes" on social media networks. canadians want more done to curb abuse on social mediahow can facebook fix its fake news problem?china 'flooding' social media with fake postsinside the world of ghana's internet fraudsters ms paquet-clouston said it is a global marketplace, with buyers from "brazil, kuwait, china, everywhere. it seems to be worldwide."  so who is seeking out all this fake online credibility and profile?  accounts of aspiring celebrities and models, small businesses, and online retailers are those typically buying batches of "likes" openly advertised for sale online. average people are also paying to inflate their social media presence.  "there are a lot, a lot, a lot of just common people looking for fame," she said. because so many of the accounts that bought the fake likes were "highly self-centered," they dubbed it the "ego market".  ms paquet-clouston also said the fraud scheme being run by the linux/moose  malicious-bot  creators is an almost perfect crime, with no direct victims and a lot of potential profitability.  the average price for 1,000 instragram follows is $15.98 (£12.80), although the researchers note there is a huge pricing range. creating fake social media accounts that then like and follow other accounts is not illegal but it goes against the terms of service of social media networks like instagram. the purchase of facebook and instagram likes and twitter followers is openly advertised online.  "what's illegal and criminal is doing it through a  malicious-bot , through infected devices," ms paquet-clouston said.  the  malicious-bot  can take advantage of all kinds of connected devices like routers, even "smart" appliances like fridges, toasters, and coffeemakers because, unlike most home computers, they lack antivirus and security software.  the malicious program got its name because the file containing its attack code is called elan - french for moose. ms paquet-clouston and mr bilodeau hope that their research will spur law enforcement and hosting providers to do more to target this criminal scheme. "if we don't raise people's awareness on social media fraud, there's a demand and there's a supply and it's likely to continue," said ms paquet-clouston. they next part of their research is looking for online actors behind the  malicious-bot .  a sophisticated form of  malware  known as project sauron went undetected for five years at a string of organisations, according to security researchers. the  malware  may have been designed by a state-sponsored group. it can disguise itself as benign files and does not operate in predictable ways, making it harder to detect. experts from kaspersky lab and symantec said it allows the attacker to spy on infected computers. in september last year, kaspersky first detected the  malware  on an unspecified "government organisation" network. since then, the firm claims to have found evidence of project sauron at more than 30 organisations in russia, iran and rwanda. these were generally government, scientific, military, telecoms and financial organisations, according to kaspersky. separately, symantec said it had found the  malware  in other countries, including at an airline in china and an embassy in belgium. project sauron is able to disguise itself in a wide variety of ways - as files with names similar to those published by organisations like microsoft, for example, and does not always use the same methods for sending data back to the attacker. "the attackers clearly understand that we as researchers are always looking for patterns," the company notes in its report. "remove the patterns and the operation will be harder to discover." the  malware  can steal files, log all keystrokes and open a "back door" allowing wide-ranging access to the compromised computer, according to symantec. project sauron did not share any code with other known examples of similarly powerful  malware , said kaspersky's director of threat research costin raiu. "it really stands out by itself as something very, very sophisticated," he told the bbc. mr raiu also pointed out that two of the  malware 's victims had been infected with other highly sophisticated malicious programs. one victim was found to have regin  spyware  on their systems, for example. "this would suggest that the actor behind project sauron is perhaps different," suggested mr raiu. one aspect of project sauron that demonstrates the  malware 's sophistication is its ability to steal sensitive data - such as  encryption  keys - from computers that are not actually connected to the internet. this is known as "jumping the air-gap". for this, project sauron relies on an infected usb drive being inserted into the target computer. a hidden cache of files on the drive is then able to deposit  malware  on to that pc. it is not yet clear how the attackers would have used this method to control an air-gapped computer, but they believe it might have been via a "zero day" - previously undetected - exploit that they have not yet found. "we believe it was probably deployed in rare, hard-to-catch instances," notes the kaspersky report. project sauron is characteristic of state-sponsored style  malware , according to cybersecurity expert graham cluley. "these are very stealthy, insidious attacks that can lurk in the background for years gathering information," he told the bbc. "we have seen the steady progression and evolution of these sorts of attacks. as governments try to protect themselves and get clued up, it is essentially an arms race." one of the biggest networks of spam-sending computers in the world has gone quiet, puzzling experts, internet security firms have said. for years the necurs  malicious-bot  has distributed junk mail and  malware  for many different groups of cyber-thieves. but the amount of malicious traffic emerging from necurs has now dwindled to almost nothing. it is not clear what has caused the slowdown and whether traffic will return to previously high levels. one of the first signs of the disruption was seen earlier this month when email messages spreading the dridex banking  spyware  and locky  ransomware  caught by security firms dried up. typically, millions of messages bearing these malicious programs are sent out every week,  proofpoint said in a blogpost. however, the flood of messages "essentially stopped" last week, it said. investigations revealed that these messages typically travelled via the necurs  malicious-bot  which was found to have gone largely offline. the necurs  malicious-bot  is believed to be made up of about six million compromised windows machines, many of which were enrolled when their owners inadvertently fell victim to a form of  malware  known as a rootkit. analysis of some of the machines known to be part of necurs shows that its core administration systems have disappeared, said proofpoint. "data from a variety of sources show that necurs malicious-bot  are actively looking for a new command and control (c&c) system, but we have no evidence that the necurs botmaster has been able to retake control of the  malicious-bot ." a  malicious-bot 's c&c system helps the network keep running and co-ordinates the distribution of any spam or  malware  being sent out via the global collection of computers. security researchers who monitor  malicious-bot s and the groups that operate them said the cause of the shutdown remained a mystery. "we cannot confirm how the  malicious-bot  was brought down yet," joonho sa, a researcher for fireeye, told tech news site motherboard. usb sticks containing harmful  malware  have been left in australian letterboxes, police in victoria have warned. residents of pakenham, a suburb of melbourne, have reportedly found the unmarked sticks in the boxes. plugging them into a computer triggers fraudulent media-streaming service offers, as well as other  malware , the force said in a statement. the devices are "extremely harmful" and should not be used, police say. it is not uncommon for usb sticks to be used to carry and transmit destructive  malware  and computer-virus es to computers. cybersecurity experts have called the technology "critically flawed", and in 2014 demonstrated to the bbc how any usb device could be used to infect a computer without the user's knowledge. berlin-based researchers karsten nohl and jakob lell said a device that appeared to be completely empty could still contain a computer-virus . stuxnet, one of the most sophisticated known pieces of  malware , was deployed to attack iranian nuclear centrifuges. it is believed to have been carried on an infected usb stick. the computer-virus  infected the internal network of computers running windows, and attacked siemens industrial control software in order to over-ride the system. andrew tierney, consultant at cybersecurity firm pen test partners, said the use of infected usb sticks to target households was very rare. "however, it's still a common form of attacking businesses, where the gains are much greater," he said.  "most cybercriminals are looking for volume, so it's much easier to get hold of people's information by  phishing . it's unclear whether the devices were sent in the post, but putting a usb stick in someone's letterbox by visiting the property and potentially getting your fingerprints on them creates a much greater risk of getting caught."  the university of illinois conducted an experiment earlier this year, dropping 297 usb drives around its campus. had the sticks been infected, the attack would have had an estimated success rate of between 45% and 98%, the study found. "you'd be surprised at how many people would fall for plugging an unknown usb stick into their computer. some users may become distrustful at the stage only when the software asks them to download a program, but word files can still be harmful," said mr tierney. peter says that the cyber-attacks on his company are relentless. "we see tens of different hacking attacks every single week. it is never ending." a senior computer network manager for a global financial services company, peter (who did not want to give his surname, or the name of his employer, due to his firm's anxieties surrounding cyber-security), says they are bombarded from all directions. "we see everything," he says. "staff get emails sent to them pretending to be from the service desk, asking them to reset their log-in passwords. "we see workers being tricked into downloading computer-virus es from hackers demanding ransoms, and we have even had employees sent whatsapp messages pretending to be from the ceo, asking for money transfers. "and having staff working from home during the lockdowns has just made it worse, as it is much harder to keep an eye on everyone." with one in three uk workers currently based exclusively at home, and the same level in the us, this remote working on a vast scale continues to be a major headache for the it security bosses of companies large and small around the world. and studies shows that many firms are not taking the issue as seriously as they should. for example, one in five uk home workers has received no training on cyber-security, according to a recent survey by legal firm hayes connor solicitors.  the report also found that two out of three employees who printed potentially sensitive work documents at home admitted to putting the papers in their bins without shredding them first. meanwhile, a separate uk study last year found that 57% of it decision makers believe that remote workers will expose their firm to the risk of a data breach. "in the rush and panic to set remote working practices up, even simple data protection practices were ignored," says christine sabino, a senior associate at hayes connor. "companies did not provide additional security relating to computers, electronic communication, phone communication." so what can both companies and home working staff do to make things as safe and secure as possible? ted harrington, a san diego-based cyber-security specialist, and author of hackable: how to do application security right, says firms should have started by giving all home workers a dedicated work laptop. while many larger companies may well have done this, not all smaller firms necessarily have the resources to do so, but mr harrington stresses its importance. "supply staff with laptops and other equipment that are owned, controlled and configured by the company," he says. "this alleviates the burden on your people to set things up right, and ensures they follow the security controls the company wants." definitely don't have staff using their personal computers for work, says sam grubb, an arkansas-based cyber-security consultant, and author of forthcoming book how cybersecurity really works. "the main problem with using your own computer to do work is that you are not limited in what you can do on it, nor are you necessarily the only one that uses it," he says. "so while you might not be visiting a shady website to download movies for free, your teenage son could be doing that exact thing on your home laptop without you even knowing. "this makes it much easier for  malware  or other attacks to happen. this might affect the work you are doing, or in a worst-case scenario, lead to the compromise of co-workers' devices, or other company devices such as servers." mr harrington says that the next step is that companies must set up a vpn or virtual private network, so that remote computers have secure and  encryption  connections with the firm's servers and everyone else in the company. mr grubb uses a transport and wildlife analogy to explain how vpns work. "a vpn is like a tunnel between two cities," he says. "instead of driving through the dark forest full of tigers, lions and bears, you drive through the underground tunnel, where no one can see you driving until you reach your destination on the other side." however, even with work laptops, vpns and the latest cyber-security software systems in place, staff can still make damaging mistakes, such as falling prey to a " phishing " email - a malicious email pretending to be a legitimate one in order to trick someone into handing over sensitive data. currently such scam emails doing the rounds include some that are pretending to be informing the targeted person that they have been exposed to covid-19, or invited to have the vaccine. they ask the recipient to clink on the link, which then tries to download  malware  onto his or her computer. new tech economy is a series exploring how technological innovation is set to shape the new emerging economic landscape. for this reason, both mr harrington and mr grubb say that it is essential that businesses give staff proper cyber-security training. "firms should be providing training to help their employees understand the threats they face," says mr grubb.  ms sabino adds that both staff and their bosses need to do their bit. she says, for example, that employees should avoid talking about work on social media, while firms should give shredders to home workers who need to print things out. with even the most cyber-security aware home workers just one click away from making a mistake, mr harrington says that firms need policies in place so that staff know who to immediately report a threat to. "if an employee falls victim to an attack, make sure that they know a) who to contact, and b) that their outreach is welcome and won't result in termination," he says. "you don't want people afraid of repercussions and thus covering up mistakes." tsedal neeley, a professor of business administration from harvard business school who is an expert on remote working, agrees that home workers should know exactly who to report cyber-security problems to. "engaging with their firm's it/cyber-security experts is crucial," she says. peter, the computer network manager, says this engagement should be frequent. "users should be suspicious of anything that they are not 100% confident about, and it does not hurt to ask your it department. it is better to check than be compromised." the gossip news site perezhilton.com has exposed recent visitors to  malware , according to a cybersecurity alert. california-based cyphort labs said that it had detected ads placed on the site being used to spread harmful code on two separate visits during one week. the celebrity scandal site has not yet commented but was known to have suffered a similar problem last year. experts suggested users install ad-blocking plug-ins to defend themselves. the phenomenon is known as "malvertising", and users do not have to click on the ads to find their device infected. perezhilton.com is far from being the only publisher to have hosted the threat. cyphort identified 1,654 unique domains that had fallen victim to the parasitical attack in 2015, and said it believed it was on course to see more than 2,000 instances this year. the new york times, aol and bbc.com are among other popular sites thought to have been hijacked in this way. since january. "malvertising is effective because users tend to trust mainstream, high-trafficked "clean" websites," security researcher nick bilogorskiy blogged. "the attackers abuse this trust to infect them via third-party ad content." perezhilton.com says it is visited by 12 million people every month. in the first instance on 30 april, the firm said perezhilton.com's ads caused users to download the angler exploit kit, which is used to distribute a range of infections including  ransomware . then on 2 may, it said a different type of exploit kit was spread via the site. if the users had anti-virus software installed they may have been protected against some of the threats. but in many cases they would not have known they had been exposed. like many sites, perezhilton.com does not check each advert that appears on its pages but instead relies on third parties to place them, sharing the revenue they generate. "the only organisations which understand the full scale of the threat are the advertising networks themselves, and they don't want to draw attention to their own failure to vet their clients," commented dr steven murdoch, a security expert at university college london. cyphort noted that users could protect themselves by installing ad-blocking extensions for their web browser. dr murdoch concurred but questioned whether this was a long-term solution. "ad-blockers offer a temporary mitigation against these problems but if everyone starts using them the current business model of the web will no longer be sustainable," he said. "other options for keeping the web running include asking users to pay for services - subscriptions - but few websites have been able to make this work." the independent newspaper's blogging platform has been briefly compromised with  malware  that infects readers' computers, security experts have said. researchers from trend micro found blogs on the website had been modified to install  malware  known as cryptesla on readers' devices. the  malware  holds files on the host machine to ransom and demands a payment to restore them. the independent said it had removed all ads on the site while it investigated. "it appears that an advert appearing on that blogsite may have included  malware ," said a spokesman for the newspaper.  "there is no suggestion or evidence that any of our users have been affected by this." the spokesman said the site affected was an old or "legacy" system that was now rarely visited.  according to trend micro, the  ransomware  has been present on the independent blogs website since at least 21 november. "we reported it to them on tuesday - but, as of today, it is still happening," said raimund genes, chief technical officer at trend micro. "now we need to go public to warn people who are not using security software like ours." the  malware  exploits a security hole in adobe flash player to install itself on a victim's computer. once downloaded, it sets about  encryption  documents, rendering them useless without the key to decrypt them, for which it demands a ransom. the vulnerability in flash has since been patched, but anybody using an old version of the web browser plug-in could still be at risk. "for a while on tuesday, the  malware  didn't trigger. but that was not the independent solving it, it was the attackers updating the  malware  with a new version," said mr genes. "my advice is to update your flash player. always do it immediately when it says an update is available, because flash remains one of the main ways attackers can compromise a system." the spokesperson added that the media group was now looking into the incident.  "we are currently investigating third-party advertising suppliers that are used by our externally hosted blog platform independent blogs, which is a separate entity to independent.co.uk," they said. "less than 0.2% of the independent digital audience visited this separate, legacy blogsite in the entire month of november," the spokesman added. more and more cyber criminals are seeking to subvert adverts in a bid to catch out visitors to popular sites.  this so-called malvertising has been found on many other places. other newspapers as well as streaming sites and porn hosts have all briefly hosted booby-trapped ads. a latvian man has pleaded guilty to creating  malware  that stole millions of dollars from online bank accounts.  deniss calovskis admitted in a new york court hearing that he had been hired to write part of the gozi  computer-virus . the code calovskis wrote changed banking websites and helped make the computer-virus  more effective.  gozi was first found in 2007 but remained active for years and is thought to have infected more than one million computers worldwide. "i knew what i was doing was against the law," calovskis said in court, answering charges of conspiring to commit computer intrusion.  calovskis was extradited to the us from latvia in february after lengthy negotiations between the two nations over the potential sentence he would serve.  latvian government officials initially resisted calls to hand over calovskis, saying us plans to sentence him to more than 60 years in jail did not represent "proportionate punishment".  a plea agreement on sentencing reached with lawyers representing calovskis means he will not appeal against any jail sentence of two years or less.  it is not clear whether the 10 months calovskis spent in jail in latvia during the extradition row will count as part of the sentence he eventually receives.  he is scheduled to be sentenced on 14 december. two other men have been arrested in connection with the creation and administration of gozi. russian national nikita kuzmin is in jail in the us following his arrest in may 2011 on separate hacking and fraud charges.  extradition proceedings against romanian mihai ionut paunescu are currently on hold pending an appeal. network tools specialist solarwinds has updated its flagship orion software, 11 days after revealing a major breach.  on 13 december, it disclosed that orion had been compromised. it was used as a means to penetrate us government networks and companies including intel. it was later revealed that the product had also been compromised by  malware  from a suspected second perpetrator, adding a separate backdoor. solarwinds said industry experts were helping it investigate the attacks. the texas-based company provides computer network management tools to a wide variety of clients including british accountants deloitte, us chip-maker nvidia and the californian cloud-computer software firm vmware. a uk security source told the bbc a small number of british organisations had probably been affected. some experts have warned it could take more than a year for organisations to determine whether attackers have penetrated their systems, stolen any data or installed backdoors. sean koessel, from the cyber-security company volexity, warned companies: "don't leave any stone unturned." "i could easily see it taking half a year or more to figure out, if not into the years, for some of these organisations," he told the reuters news agency. the identities of those responsible for the attacks on orion remain unclear.  however, several us government officials and security experts have pointed the finger at russia for being behind the more devastating "sunburst" attack. the kremlin has denied responsibility.  us national security adviser robert o'brien told fox news: "it's clearly a sophisticated intelligence operation and no doubt was done by a state actor. and we'll get around to attribution of that at a time and place of our choosing." crowdstrike - a leading us cyber-security firm - has said that it believes those responsible for the sunburst hack also tried to breach its systems earlier this year. the firm said it was alerted to the fact by microsoft on 15 december, although the hackers' attempt had failed. cyber-thieves can reap returns of almost 1,500% when they invest in  ransomware , a study suggests. trustwave looked at how much cash typical cybercriminals spend and what their potential profits might be. it estimated it would cost $5,900 (£3,860) to buy a  ransomware  kit that could return up to $90,000 in one month of operation. experts said people should take precautions and avoid paying up if they get hit.  ransomware  involves a malicious program infecting a machine, scrambling key files and then demanding the machine's owner pay cash before the data is unscrambled.  according to a report from intel-owned security firm mcafee labs, high-tech extortion schemes nearly doubled in the first three months of 2015. "i was frankly stunned by the figures we got from this," said karl sigler, a threat intelligence specialist at trustwave. he said the company drew its figures from information available on hidden sites on tor and discussion forums available on the wider web. typically, he said, a  ransomware  scammer needs three separate tools to perpetrate their crimes -  malware , an exploit kit and a pool of victims. the service industry surrounding web crime had grown to such an extent, he said, that all these were available to buy online. it had found forums in eastern europe, asia and latin america peddling all three. by spending about $5,900, criminals would get the  ransomware  malicious code, an online kit that acted as an administration system for an attack campaign and a ready source of victims from a compromised site.  if a criminal infected 10% of the 20,000 visitors to a compromised website each day and only 0.5% of those victims paid the $300 ransom being demanded, then one campaign could net a criminal about $90,000 a month, he said.  "the money is there and the economy is there," he said. "if you lack the morals and ethics it can be easy to get into."  mikko hypponen, chief research officer at f-secure, said the virtual currency bitcoin has been key to the growth of  ransomware . "that's what really enabled the  ransomware  problem to explode," he said. "once the criminals were able to collect their ransom without getting caught, nothing was stopping them." the latest trend was for an affiliate model in which the maker of  ransomware  sells the code to someone else who then uses it.  the market had become so popular that gangs were now competing against each other fighting for market share. "almost all of them deliver the 'goods'," said mr hypponen. "if you pay, you will get your files back. some even run support forums to help you recover. "this is because they need good online reputation: otherwise nobody would pay," he said. mr hypponen's advice to avoid falling victim was to take backups, ensure software is up-to-date, be suspicious of message attachments and run comprehensive security software. "and," he said, "don't pay money to these clowns unless you absolutely have to." lincolnshire county council's computer systems have been closed for four days after being hit by computer  malware  demanding a £1m ransom. ransomware   encryption  data on infected machines and unscrambles it only if victims pay a fee.the council said it was working with its computer security provider to apply a fix to its systems.phillip norton reports. lincolnshire county council's computer systems have been closed for four days after being hit by computer  malware  demanding a £1m ransom.  ransomware   encryption  data on infected machines and only unscrambles it if victims pay a fee. the authority said it was working with its computer security provider to apply a fix to its systems. chief information officer judith hetherington-smith said only a small number of files were affected. she said the authority took action once the  malware  was identified and shut its systems down. this meant some services were affected, including libraries and online booking systems. mrs hetherington-smith said: "people can only use pens and paper, we've gone back a few years." talking about the attack, she said: "it happened very quickly. once we identified it we shut the network down, but some damage is always done before you get to that point - and some files have been locked by the software. "a lot of the files will be available for us to restore from the back-up." the council is "hopeful" most systems will be back working early next week. it described the  ransomware  as "the biggest attack" it had ever experienced, adding it was "zero-day  malware ", meaning it was previously unknown to security experts. the authority said it was "unfortunate to be the first victim", and was confident it had appropriate security measures in place. lincolnshire police have confirmed they are investigating the attack. the information commissioner's office, which is responsible for the enforcement of the data protection act 1998, said it was aware of the incident. update: it later became clear that the demand for a £1m ransom - information provided by the council - was actually for substantially less. this has been covered in a follow-up report. as many as 4,000 apps were infected by the xcodeghost  malware  used in an attack on apple's app store, security researchers have said. the news came as apple said it was going to make its xcode program - the tool used to build apps for its operating system - easier to download in china, where the problem originated. some chinese firms said slow download speeds behind the great firewall led them to seek locally held, bootlegged versions of xcode that they did not know were infected with  malware . apple's marketing boss phil schiller said the firm would offer domestic downloads in china in a bid to speed up downloads and convince people to install only the official software. app developers are not blocked from downloading the official version of xcode. but censorship controls, along with low investment in infrastructure for international connections, make using services based outside china a painful process for some. "in the us it only needs 25 minutes to download. china may take three times as long," mr schiller told sina.cn. the counterfeit versions served  malware  that infected apps built on them, allowing the attackers to steal data about users and send it to servers they controlled. the us security firm palo alto networks said it believed the number of infected apps was likely to be "far greater" than the few dozen initially thought. according to fireeye, another security company, the figure could be as high as 4,000. the app store had previously been almost entirely free of  malware , and it was unclear how the altered code withstood apple's app approval process, in which developers often wait a week for reviews of updates to their apps. "these reviews are legendary for how particular apple is," said robert walker, founder of mobile dating app cuddli, who worked for microsoft in china. "supposedly, a security review is part of that. but they missed this repeatedly over dozens of different applications. a huge mistake on their part." security consultant graham cluley said: "apple security, for so long priding itself on the tight ship it maintains over apps that get into its app store, has definitely suffered a bloody nose. "however, let's not lose sight of the fact that  malware  appearing in google's equivalent app store for android is far from rare." apple released advice to developers on checking their versions of xcode, but did not respond to a request for comment. the hyatt hotel chain has posted a global list of hotels hit by  malware  that was found on its customer payments system last year. the list includes hyatt premises in canada, the us, the uk, jordan, chile and indonesia and involves almost half of its properties. the firm is offering one year's free protection to people who used their cards in one of the compromised hotels. the infection took place between august and december last year. the chicago-based hyatt group has 627 properties in its portfolio. it said 250 hotels, all of which it manages directly, had been infected.  in a statement, hyatt's global president of operations chuck floyd said that "unauthorised access" to payment card information - including the names of cardholders, card numbers and expiry dates - had been detected primarily in restaurants but also at spas, golf shops, parking and some front desks inside the hotel chain. "we encourage you to remain vigilant and to review your payment card account statements closely," he said, adding that cards could now be used "with confidence" inside the hotel chain following the investigation. although he said the company had "worked quickly" with cybersecurity experts and law enforcement to address the issue, the infection appeared to have gone unnoticed for about four months. the period of risk for affected customers was between 30 july and 8 december 2015, mr floyd wrote. hyatt has now teamed up with a company called csid, which specialises in identity protection and "fraud restoration" services, to offer one year's free coverage for those whose cards may have been compromised. security expert brian krebs noted on his blog that the hilton, starwood, mandarin oriental, white lodging and the trump collection hotels were all hit by payment information breaches last year. online poker players are being targeted by a  computer-virus  that spies on their virtual cards. the software shares the cards with the computer-virus 's creators who then join the same game and try to fleece the victim. the sneaky  malware  has been found lurking in software designed to help poker fans play better, said the security firm that found it. the software also targets other useful information on a victim's computer such as login names and passwords. the  malware  targets players of the pokerstars and full tilt poker sites, said robert lipovsky, a security researcher at eset, in a blogpost.  when it infects a machine, the software monitors the pc's activity and springs to life when a victim has logged in to either one of the two poker sites. it then starts taking screenshots of their activity and the cards they are dealt. screenshots are then sent to the attacker. the images show the hand the player has been dealt as well as their player id. this, said eset, allows the attacker to search the sites for that player and join their game. using information about a victim's hand gives the attacker a significant advantage. "we are unsure whether the perpetrator plays the games manually or in some automated way," wrote mr lipovsky. eset found the windows  malware  lurking in some well-known file-sharing applications, pc utilities as well as several widely used poker calculators and player databases. eset said the  spyware  had been active for several months and most victims were in eastern europe, particularly russia and the ukraine. login names and passwords for more than 225,000 apple accounts have been stolen by cyber-thieves in china.  the credentials were found by security firm palo alto networks while investigating suspicious activity on many apple devices. it uncovered a  malware  family that targets jailbroken iphones. the majority of people hit by keyraider are in china but palo alto said iphone owners in 17 other nations had also been caught out.  the theft is believed to be the biggest ever involving apple accounts, said palo alto in a blogpost outlining its findings. user reports of unauthorised payments being made via itunes accounts and of apps being installed unexpectedly alerted palo alto to a potential problem. it found that an attacker had made changes to software used on jailbroken iphones. a jailbroken iphone is one that can run apps that are not sourced from the main apple app store.  the main purpose of the booby-trapped software was to let people get apps and other apple content without paying for them. the malicious version of the code, dubbed keyraider by palo alto, spied on transactions to scoop up login names, passwords and other credentials. the stolen data was sent to a remote server run by the malicious hackers behind keyraider. apple's phones are the third most popular in china behind huawei and xiaomi, suggests research.  security firm symantec said iphone-owners were taking a risk by jailbreaking their device because this can remove the security checks apple introduced to thwart malicious apps. "third-party app stores often don't have the same controls and policies in place when it comes to the software they distribute," it said "and may be used to harbour malicious copies of well-known apps or other  malware ." hundreds of thousands of android phones have been infected with  malware  that uses handsets to send spam and buy event tickets in bulk. mobile security firm lookout said the computer-virus , called notcompatible, was the most sophisticated it had seen. the cyberthieves behind it had recently rewritten its core code to make it harder to defeat, it said.  mobile  malware  aimed at smartphones is steadily getting more complex, said security company wandera. jeremy linden, a security analyst at lookout, said: "the group behind notcompatible are operating on a different plane to the typical mobile  malware  maker."  usually, he said, mobile  malware  campaigns lasted only a couple of weeks but the notcompatible creators had been operating for more than two years. the bug first appeared in 2012 and was now on its third iteration, he said, adding that the latest version had been rewritten recently and was now as sophisticated as the  malware  aimed at desktop computers. "they are successful enough to make it worth ripping out the back end of the  malware  to make it be much more stable and resistant to efforts to take it down," he said. this latest version employed end-to-end  encryption , peer-to-peer networking technologies and stealthy operating procedures to help it avoid being spotted and removed, he said. phones infected with notcompatible were enrolled into a network that is now being rented out to any crime group that needs a ready source of android users. mr linden said compromised phones had been used in a variety of scams including sending spam, attacking wordpress blogs and buying tickets for popular events in bulk that would then be resold at a significant profit.  "this is the most technically sophisticated threat we are facing and it's the most worrying to us," said mr linden.  notcompatible is being spread via spam and websites seeded with booby-trapped downloads, he said and urged android users to be wary of any app that required a security update to be installed before it was run. mobile  malware  was growing in popularity among cybercrime groups because smartphones were now so central to modern life, said eldar tuvey from mobile security monitoring firm wandera "we're definitely seeing the bad guys focus their attention on mobiles," he said. "that's because more time is now spent on apps on phones than desktops." while android had long been a target of  malware  makers, the appearance of the wirelurker and masque  malware  families that both targeted apple gadgets showed the growing confidence of cybercriminals, he said. they were keen to get a foothold on a phone so they could harvest useful data that they could sell or use to make  phishing  emails look more plausible, or to lever open accounts for social networks or other web-based services. with 70% of people reusing passwords across many different sites and services, it was no surprise that criminals regularly got access to these accounts, he said. many were aided by "leaky" apps that passed around log-in names, email addresses and other credentials in un encryption  text, said mr tuvey. "the trend is only moving in one direction," he said. "the criminals are sharing information between themselves and they are learning about how to improve the efficiency of their attacks."  malware  spread via chat forums on the video games streaming site twitch can spend users' money without authorisation, it has emerged. the finnish security firm f-secure said clicking on the  malware  links also enabled infiltrators to wipe accounts on the gaming shop, steam. twitch is advising users not to use links from unknown sources. the site, which was recently bought by amazon for $970m (£597m) has more than 55 million unique monthly viewers. the vulnerability originates from an automated account which, according to f-secure, "bombards channels and invites viewers to participate in a weekly raffle for a chance to win things such as 'counter-strike: global offensive' items". if viewers take the bait, they are invited to fill in their name and email address which then allows the  malware  to gain control, allowing it to: take screenshotsadd new friends in steam (a gaming shop and community commonly linked to twitch accounts)accept pending friend requests in steaminitiate trading with new friends in steambuy items, if user has moneysend a trade offeraccept pending trade transactions a spokesman for twitch told the bbc that the vulnerability was the "first instance" he had seen, but that the site would "remind our community about not clicking on links from unknown sources just like they wouldn't on other social media sites".  he added: "please note that we give all broadcasters the option to disable links in their chat which can easily prevent this." update: on saturday, a spokesman said twitch had only received two reports of the  malware  attack, and had blocked the link. if someone shares a porn video on facebook, beware. the latest threat to users involves a fake flash player update which pops up during a preview of a pornographic video. once you click on the link to update your video player,  malware  (the name given to  malware ), downloads onto your computer.  this  spyware  horse software gives the creator of the  malware  remote access to your computer.  they can then download computer-virus es onto your computer.  security researcher mohammad faghani alerted users to the threat in a post on the full disclosure blog, which flags up network vulnerabilities. "the  spyware  tags the infected user's friends with an enticing post," he explained.  faghani warned that the  malware  then tags up to 20 friends of the victim in the malicious post, thus leading to a larger number of those who could be affected. he believes it could "infect more than 110,000 users in two days". faghani also said the  malware  was able to hijack keyboard and mouse movement. in response, facebook said it was aware of the problem and was working to block it. in a statement issued to security news website threatpost, a facebook spokesperson said: "we use a number of automated systems to identify potentially harmful links and stop them from spreading. "in this case, we're aware of these  malware  varieties, which are typically hosted as browser extensions and distributed using links on social media sites.  "we are blocking links to these scams, offering cleanup options, and pursuing additional measures to ensure that people continue to have a safe experience on facebook." last week, a hacker group called lizard squad had hinted it was responsible for the facebook, instagram and tinder going down. facebook denied it was hacked, saying the access issues were "not the result of a third party attack". follow @bbcnewsbeat on twitter, bbcnewsbeat on instagram and radio1newsbeat on youtube readers of the daily mail's website were shown fake advertisements that linked to  malware , according to a security company. it said bogus ads for shoes briefly appeared among the selection of banners displayed on dailymail.com. instead of online shops, it said, the ads linked to  malware  that could expose computers to " ransomware ".  ransomware   encryption  files on a victim's computer and asks for a payment to decrypt them again. the practice is known as "malvertising". security company  malware bytes said it had made the discovery last week and had published a report about its findings online. a spokesman for the daily mail later said that it had not been contacted by  malware bytes about its findings in advance. however, the bbc has seen evidence that the security company did in fact try to contact the newspaper about the issue last friday. by monday morning, the security company said that the fake ads had been removed.  malware bytes said the banners, purporting to be for an online shoe retailer, were published via a bogus ad server. from there, they were said to have been distributed via an advertising network that presents ads to readers on the daily mail's website. if a user clicked on one of the ads, said the security firm, they would be redirected to a well known piece of  malware  called the angler exploit kit, which attacks vulnerabilities in internet explorer and flash. there are various ways to protect yourself from  ransomware , according to tony berning, senior manager at software company opswat. "to protect against  ransomware , users must back up their data regularly," he said. "in addition to this, an important defence against  ransomware  is the use of anti-virus engines to scan for threats.  "with over 450,000 new threats emerging daily, anti- malware  engines need to detect new threats continuously, and will inevitably address different threats at different times," mr berning said. security firm  malware bytes says a campaign of  malware  hidden inside online ads which hit search engine yahoo earlier this year has now also appeared on adult websites. the advertising, apparently for a service called sex messenger, also contained tools for identifying whether the user was genuine rather than a bot. it appeared on porn site xhamster, one of the world's most visited domains. however the firm said porn sites are no more dangerous than mainstream ones. the ad has now been removed. the  malware , which also made use of the security of cloud-based platforms to hide what it was doing, worked by directing the user to a fraudulent page once it had determined that they were running microsoft's internet explorer and had identified the device's security settings. so-called "malvertising" often installs  ransomware  on to a victim's machine. it loads a page containing false accusations of criminal activity and instructions for paying a fine. "these efforts ensure that only real users will get to see the exploit kit landing page therefore excluding honeypots and security researchers alike," wrote  malware bytes security consultant jerome segura in a blog post. although in this case the ad was popping up so often that researchers were able to study it after all. xhamster is currently ranked the 71st most visited website in the world by web analytics firm alexa and attracts hundreds of millions of monthly users.  but the online porn industry does invest in security, mr segura added. "there's this idea that adult sites are more dangerous to visit than 'regular' sites," he told tech week europe.  "i don't believe it's entirely true especially for the top sites because they do dedicate a lot of resources to fighting fraud and  malware .  "based on what we have seen in the past months as far as malvertising goes, we have seen just as many top mainstream publishers as pornographic ones." the firm that distributed the ad has now taken it down. a cybersecurity threat known as shylock has been disrupted thanks to an international operation, the uk's national crime agency (nca) has said. shylock was said to have been installed on more than 30,000 machines worldwide, but mostly targeted bank accounts of people living in the uk. as ever, the nca urged the public to make sure their security software was fully up-to-date. the action follows a similar effort led by us authorities last month. the zeus  malicious-bot  was said to have infected more than a million computers worldwide.  the us is seeking a russian man, evgeniy bogachev, in connection with the operation. this latest action has been led by uk intelligence services, working in conjunction with security experts based in the hague. "the nca is co-ordinating an international response to a cybercrime threat to businesses and individuals around the world," said andy archibald, deputy director of the nca's national cyber crime unit.  "this phase of activity is intended to have a significant effect on the shylock infrastructure and demonstrates how we are using partnerships across sectors and across national boundaries to cut cybercrime impacting the uk." the shylock  malware  - so named because passages from shakespeare's the merchant of venice were found within its code - affected computers running microsoft's windows operating system. authorities were able to seize computer servers that were controlling shylock. however, cybercriminals are often quick to react when disrupted by server seizures. in the case of zeus, authorities predicted it would take just two weeks for criminals to reorganise themselves and restart the operation. shapeshifting  malware  that changes its identity up to 19 times a day to avoid detection has been deactivated by europe's cybercrime centre and the fbi.  at its height in september 2014 the  malware , called beebone, was controlling 100,000 computers a day. criminals used it to help steal passwords and download other programs to the infected computers.   around 12,000 victims are being asked to use new online clean-up tools to remove it.    once on a victim's computer, beebone operates like a downloader application that can be controlled by the suspected criminal gangs behind the program.  it was used to force victims' pcs to fetch other  malware  from the internet including password stealers,  ransomware , rootkits, and programs designed to take down legitimate websites.  computer security firm intel security, which helped law enforcement agencies to stop the  malware , said it had seen beebone change its identity up to 19 times per day to avoid more traditional "signature detection" anti-virus methods.  intel security's chief technology officer raj samani told the bbc: "beebone is highly sophisticated. it regularly changes its unique identifier, downloading a new version of itself, and can detect when it is being isolated, studied, or attacked.  "it can successfully block attempts to kill it."    operation beebone was carried out by the joint cybercrime action taskforce set up by the european union to tackle cross-border internet crime. the team finally managed to tackle the  malware  by stopping it from connecting to servers on the net used to control and send it instructions.  nearly 100 .com, .net, and .org domains have been "sinkholed" - the process by which traffic meant for specific ip addresses is redirected from suspected criminal-controlled sites to the investigating authorities. this allows detectives to "see" how the application behaves and to intercept requests for further instructions by the  malware .   the fbi assisted in redirecting traffic from most of the sites being used by the gangs because they were operated from the united states and are under us jurisdiction.  the operation also involved private security firms intel security, kaspersky labs and shadowserver. the taskforce now believes it has isolated the morphing  malware  so criminals can no longer make use of it. head of operations at the european cybercrime centre, paul gillen told the bbc the agency would now look at whether those behind the attacks could be identified and brought to justice. he admitted the solution the taskforce had found was not a permanent one: "we can't sinkhole these domains forever. we need those infected to clean up their computers as soon as possible." several security vendors have created a free tool to remove the beebone  malware  including f-secure, trendmicro, symantec and intel security. but victims need to first realise they have the  malware  on their systems before they can download the removal tool.  raj samani said those who have the  malware  "will be notified by their internet service provider".  isps in each affected country will be handed a list of suspected victims to contact by the taskforce.   the beebone  malware  was described by the europol taskforce as "very sophisticated". some security experts believe the consequences of the attack could have been much worse.    portcullis security in the uk advises various british government departments on cybersecurity issues. its director, paul docherty, told the bbc:  "the fact that it [the  malware ] is complicated suggests that it could be used for more  targeted-threat s. if those responsible were able to harness similar difficult-to-detect code they could potentially move the point of attack from home users to corporate users or other entities which typically hold large amounts of sensitive, valuable data." mr docherty said computer users should have anti-virus software installed and that it was essential that they kept it up-to-date. he warned against members of the  public underestimating how valuable their computer might be to criminal hackers.  "there is still a general consensus that, it won't happen to me, i have nothing anyone could want. however, when you discuss with people what they actually use their technology for this changes very quickly."  the total number of computers infected by beebone is relatively modest compared with some recent  malware  take-downs like gameover zeus. security experts believe this is because the  malware  was not spread by mass emailing potential victims with poisoned internet links, an approach known as spear phishing . intel security said beebone  was more commonly spread through hardware like usb drives, or data discs.     now remaining victims are being asked to clean up their computers as soon as possible.  mr samani said it is likely those who have beebone on their computers "were likely to have a lot of other  malware  too because of the nature of beebone as a  malware  downloader itself".  but there is another good reason why victims will want to move on quickly, says mr docherty: "clean-up after infection could be complicated, as this [criminal] campaign has used a constantly changing (polymorphic) dropper to implant  malware , it is possible that it has also installed code of a similar nature to re-enable access to the systems following clean-up." criminal organisations are offering subscription services to other fraudsters to teach them a scam in which they impersonate their victims. fraud prevention organisation cifas said fraudsters were sharing tips and getting more sophisticated in their attempts to steal money. cases of a particular scam targeting shoppers, which often spikes at christmas, have tripled this year. criminals harvest personal information then buy items in someone else's name. the so-called facility takeover fraud sees victims reveal personal or financial information to someone they believe is genuine, such as supposed bank staff.  criminals then use this information to access bank or credit card accounts to order items in the victim's name. online banking accounts can also be taken over as a result of  phishing ,  spyware  or  malware  scams on computers. cifas - a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies - said its intelligence team had seen evidence of criminals charging each other for information on the dark web. this is the part of the internet that is invisible to search engines. criminals have long shared so-called sucker lists, detailing people who they have previously tricked in a scam and could be potential victims again. there were 7,461 reports in the retail sector from january to september recorded by cifas, compared with 2,365 in the same period in 2019. there was also a big rise in cases of fraudsters using the same kind of scam to order mobile phones. cifas said techniques used by criminals were becoming more sophisticated as they were finding new ways to circumvent security measures put in place by companies.  beware christmas parcel delivery scams, banks warnbanks 'too often blaming customers' for fraud mike haley, chief executive of cifas, said: "we often notice a spike in this activity over the festive period, and so i would urge everyone to remain vigilant if contacted by anyone claiming to be from an organisation they trust, such as a bank, mobile phone company or even the police." last month, banking trade body uk finance warned criminals were using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through  phishing  emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud  malware  has bypassed apple's safety controls by taking advantage of a process used by employers to add apps to workers' iphones and ipads. us-based palo alto networks said wirelurker appeared to have originated in china and was mostly infecting devices there. the  malware  first targets mac computers via a third-party store before copying itself to ios devices. researchers warn it steals information and can install other damaging apps. "wirelurker is unlike anything we've ever seen in terms of apple ios and os x  malware ," said ryan olson, palo alto network's intelligence director.  "the techniques in use suggest that bad actors are getting more sophisticated when it comes to exploiting some of the world's best-known desktop and mobile platforms."  wirelurker has the ability to transfer from apple's mac computer to mobile devices through a usb cable.  the security firm said the  malware  was capable of stealing "a variety of information" from mobile devices it infects and regularly requested updates from the attackers' control server. "this  malware  is under active development and its creator's ultimate goal is not yet clear," the company added. apple has issued a brief statement. "we are aware of  malware  available from a download site aimed at users in china, and we've blocked the identified apps to prevent them from launching," it said. "as always, we recommend that users download and install software from trusted sources." according to palo alto networks, wirelurker was first noticed in june when a developer at the chinese firm tencent realised there were suspicious files and processes happening on his mac and iphone. further inquiries revealed a total of 467 mac programs listed on the maiyadi app store had been compromised to include the  malware , which in turn had been downloaded 356,104 times as of 16 oct. infected software included popular games including angry birds, the sims 3, pro evolution soccer 2014 and battlefield: bad company 2. once the  malware  was on the mac, it communicated with a command-and-control server to check if it needed to update its code, and then waited until an iphone, ipad or ipod was connected. when an ios device was connected the  malware  would check if it was jailbroken - a process used by some to remove some of apple's restrictions. if it was jailbroken, wirelurker backed up the device's apps to the mac, where it repackaged them with  malware , and then installed the infected versions back on to the ios machine. if it was not jailbroken - which is the case for most ios devices - wirelurker took advantage of a technique created by apple to allow businesses to install special software on their staff's handsets and tablets.  this involved placing infected apps on the device that had been signed with a bogus "enterprise certificate" - code added to a product that is supposed to prove it comes from a trustworthy source.  to ensure the devices accepted this certificate, a permissions request was made to pop up on the targeted ios device on the user's first attempt to run an infected app.  it simply asked for permission to run the app, but if the user clicked "continue" it installed code called a "provisioning profile", which told the ios device it could trust any other app that had the same enterprise certificate. palo alto networks remarked that while this technique was not a new concept, it was the only known example of it being used to target non-jailbroken ios devices in the wild. once active, the  malware  is used to upload information about the machine to the hackers, including phone numbers from its contacts app, and the user's apple id. different versions of wirelurker also automatically installed new apps on the devices - including a video game and a comic book reader. while these were innocuous, experts warn they could represent a test run for other more damaging software. "people have got very used to ios being secure and there is a danger they may be complacent about the risk this presents," said prof alan woodward, from the university of surrey. "now apple knows what it's looking for, it should be able to shut it down relatively easily. but it shows that people are trying to attack apple's operating system and the firm can't take security for granted."  news of the attack comes after tech giant apple's icloud storage service in china was attacked by hackers trying to steal user information just last month. chinese web monitoring group greatfire.org said that hackers intercepted data and potentially gained access to passwords, messages, photos and contacts. they believed the beijing government was behind the move. but the chinese government denied the claims and was backed by state-owned internet provider china telecom, which said the accusation was "untrue and unfounded". china is home to the world's biggest smartphone market and apple saw its iphone sales there jump 50% in the april to june quarter from a year earlier. to minimise the risk of attack, palo alto networks has recommended that users: do not download mac apps from third-party storesdo not jailbreak ios devicesdo not connect their ios devices to untrusted computers and accessories, either to copy information or charge the machinesdo not accept requests for a new "enterprise provisioning profile" unless it comes from an authorised party, for example the employer's it department new  malware  targeting apple products is mostly affecting chinese users, warned an online security researcher.us-based palo alto networks said "wirelurker" which is infecting apple's desktop and mobile operating systems appears to have originated in china and is mostly infecting devices there.the  malware  spreads through apps uploaded from a third-party store and can steal information.the bbc's john sudworth in beijing explained how products are being affected.   an antivirus program labelled itself as  malware , causing some computers it was running on to stop working. after an update, essential components in two panda security antivirus programs became corrupted, leading them to be mistakenly identified as malign and quarantined. panda said a fix had been released and warned that rebooting affected systems could exacerbate the issue. it asked those affected to get in touch so it could help fix their machines. one security expert noted the irony. "people's first response is to turn [their computer] off and back on again, but in this case it seems like the wrong thing to do," said prof alan woodward, of surrey university. the "last thing" people would expect to cause their computers to break down was its security software, he said. panda security said that the signature file in both its pcop and its retail 2015 packages became corrupted. "the signature file was repaired immediately. additionally, a solution for all affected products has been automatically deployed. however, in certain environments it is possible for the incident to persist." it added a list of steps that affected users could take to ensure that their system was clear of the issue. prof woodward said the episode was "not a great advert for panda". he said he had heard of some companies losing the use of multiple computers to the issue. he added that data loss was a risk if machines were rebooted. but panda security said it was helping people whose machines had stopped working to restore them and that it had no evidence anyone had experienced permanent data loss as a result of the issue. a panda security spokeswoman said: "we have solved 90% of the incidents, and support is being given in real time to the ones that still have some issues." the company said that only 8% of the "millions" of pcop and retail 2015 customers were affected by the issue. a spokeswoman refused to be more precise about the figures. a danish security company has detected an attempt to spread a powerful form of android  malware  via text messages. mazar can gain administrator rights on phones, allowing it to wipe handsets, make calls or read texts. however, it will not install on phones where the language is set to russian. additionally, users would have to have unchecked a default setting on android devices that ensures software may only be installed from trusted sources. security firm heimdal thinks the malicious texts could have been sent to over 100,000 phones in denmark, though it is not sure whether users in other countries may have received the messages. this is believed to be the first time mazar has been detected in widespread, real world attacks. in the examples studied by heimdal, users receive an innocuous-looking text providing a link to what looks like a multimedia message. this link downloads tor software, which enables anonymous internet connections, to the phone. afterwards, the  malware  itself is downloaded through tor in an apparent effort to hide the source of the  malware  itself. one interesting feature of mazar is that it cannot be installed on smartphones running android with "russian" selected as the operating system's language. similar controls have been detected in pc  malware  in the past, according to morten kjaersgaard, chief executive of heimdal. infected phones are at risk from a range of threats - from attackers secretly monitoring devices to reading a user's texts or even erasing all personal data from the handset. or, the attacker could simply send a lot of texts to premium numbers. "it can do a lot of damage - maybe running up a big phone bill for which the customer would be liable," mr kjaersgaard told the bbc. "it's not like when you use your credit card and there's an international standard for banks covering [fraud]." heimdal tested phones running android kitkat (version 4.4) but mr kjaersgaard believes the issue is likely to affect all prior versions as well. later versions of the operating system have not been tested. the advice to users is to never tap on web links in text messages from unfamiliar phone numbers and to be cautious of links even if the message appears to be from a known contact since sometimes this can be spoofed. "over one billion devices are protected with google play which conducts 200 million security scans of devices per day," a google spokeswoman said. "fewer than 1% of android devices had a potentially harmful app installed in 2014, and fewer than 0.15% of devices that only install from google play had a potentially harmful app installed," she added. a leeds-based hacker used a notorious piece of  malware  called blackshades to spy on people via their webcams. investigators from the national crime agency found images on the computer of stefan rigo, 34, including ones of people involved in sexual activity, some of whom were on skype at the time. rigo was arrested in november last year during an international investigation. he has been given a 20-week suspended sentence and placed on the sex offenders' register for seven years. rigo targeted a variety of victims after gaining remote access to their computers' webcams.  incriminating images on his computer were discovered after a forensic examination. out of 14 confirmed individuals he spied on - roughly half were people he knew personally, an nca spokesman told the bbc. at a hearing in july, rigo pleaded guilty to one count of voyeurism and another computer-related offence. the court took rigo's guilty plea into account when handing down the 20 week sentence. as well as being placed on the sex offenders register, rigo will have to complete 200 hours of unpaid work within the next 12 months. investigators found and arrested rigo after raiding two addresses in leeds. the hacker had used his ex-girlfriend's details to purchase blackshades, a remote access  spyware  (rat) which allows for a high level of surreptitious control over a victim's computer.  "the problem with rats specifically is a lot of the time people don't know they're being affected," the nca spokesman said. "in the case of stefan rigo that we were looking at, his victims weren't aware." blackshades has been around since 2010 and has been sold for as little as $40 (£26), explained jens monrad at cyber security firm fireeye. "the application in itself is not that difficult to detect but typically the attackers will wrap some sort of exploit around the application," said mr monrad. "even with patches the victim will still be vulnerable so long as there is a hole in the operating system." mr monrad recommended that computer users be careful of clicking on suspicious links or downloading dubious email attachments. the criminal market for webcam hacking tools is highly active, according to mr monrad, since malicious hackers are often able to exploit their victims after taking covert images of them.  there have also been cases in which hackers sold access to specific cameras. connected security cameras in buildings may be at risk too, though there are sometimes difficulties in publicly discussing how secure they are. one researcher recently cancelled a forthcoming talk on the issue following legal pressure from the manufacturers of widely-used surveillance cameras. gianni gnesa was due to discuss "vulnerabilities found on major surveillance cameras and show how an attacker could used them to stay undetected" at the hitb gsec security conference in singapore. the register reports that a legal threat from one, unnamed, manufacturer resulted in gnesa withdrawing his presentation.  apple has said it is taking steps to remove malicious code added to a number of apps commonly used on iphones and ipads in china. it is thought to be the first large-scale attack on apple's app store. the hackers created a counterfeit version of apple's software for building ios apps, which they persuaded developers to download.  apps compiled using the tool allow the attackers to steal data about users and send it to servers they control. cybersecurity firm palo alto networks - which has analysed the  malware  dubbed xcodeghost - said the perpetrators would also be able to send fake alerts to infected devices to trick their owners into revealing information. it added they could also read and alter information in compromised devices' clipboards, which would potentially allow them to see logins copied to and from password management tools. infected applications includes tencent's hugely popular wechat app, netease's music downloading app and didi kuaidi's uber-like car hailing app.  some of the affected apps - including the business card scanner camcard - are also available outside china. "we've removed the apps from the app store that we know have been created with this counterfeit software," said apple spokeswoman christine monaghan. "we are working with the developers to make sure they're using the proper version of xcode to rebuild their apps," said christine monaghan.  on its official wechat blog, tencent said the security issue affected an older version of its app - wechat 6.2.5 - and that newer versions were not affected. it added that an initial investigation showed that no data theft or leakage of user information had occurred. in apple's walled garden app store, this sort of thing shouldn't happen.  the company goes to great lengths, and great expense, to sift through each and every submission to the store. staff check for quality, usability and, above all else, security.  the apple app store is generally considered a safe haven as the barrier to entry is high - there's only been a handful of instances of  malware  found on ios apps, compared to google's play store which for a while was regarded as something of a "wild west" for apps (until they introduced their own  malware -scanning system too). it makes this attack all the more surprising, as it looks like two groups of supposedly informed people have been caught out.  firstly developers, who security researchers say were duped into using counterfeit software to build their apps, creating the right conditions for the  malware  to be applied.   and secondly, apple's quality testers, who generally do a very good job in keeping out nasties, but in this case couldn't detect the threat.  follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc the  malware  was initially flagged by researchers at the chinese e-commerce firm alibaba. it discovered that the hackers had uploaded several altered versions of xcode - a tool used to build ios apps - to a chinese cloud storage service. then, about six months ago, the attackers posted links to the software on several forums commonly visited by chinese developers. "in china - and in other places around the world - sometimes network speeds are very slow when downloading large files from apple's servers," explained palo alto networks in a follow-up blog. "as the standard xcode installer is nearly three gigabytes, some chinese developers choose to download the package from other sources." it added that potentially hundreds of millions of users might have been affected. apple does have a security tool - called gatekeeper - that is designed to alert users to unauthorised mac programs and stop them from being run. however, it appears the developers must disabled the facility, allowing them to create ios apps with xcodeghost. despite the many news headlines about the breach, one expert said he did not forecast a major impact on the sale of apple products. "it is definitely embarrassing for apple but the reality is that  malware  is a persistent problem since the days of pcs and the problem will multiply as the number of mobile devices explodes from 1.4 billion units in 2015 to 1.8 billion in 2020," wee teck loo, head of consumer electronics at market research firm euromonitor international, told the bbc. in fact, consumers are less cautious on mobile devices than on pcs, he added. "in emerging markets like china or vietnam, mobile devices are their first connected product and security is taken for granted," he said. "consumers in emerging markets are also less protective of privacy and security issues." earlier this month, login names and passwords for more than 225,000 apple accounts were stolen by cyber-thieves in china. it was uncovered by security firm palo alto networks while investigating suspicious activity on many apple devices. it found a  malware  family that targets jailbroken iphones. the majority of people affected were in china. adverts on websites are now the biggest source of  malware  on mobile phones, according to a study. research by security company blue coat suggests web adverts have overtaken pornography as the most common way for users to encounter a  malware  threat. on one in five occasions when a mobile user comes into contact with  malware , it is via an online advert. mobile  malware  is growing, but accounts for just 1% of all  malware  threats, networking company cisco says. although web adverts have replaced pornography as the most common way for users to encounter  malware , attacks from x-rated sites are still the most effective. less than 1% of all requested content on a mobile is for pornography, yet it is responsible for 16% of  malware  attacks. "while users don't access pornography that frequently, when they do, they are very vulnerable to  malware ," said the report. in comparison, blue coat say, adverts make up 12% of requested content but are responsible for nearly 20% of attacks. the adverts are often displayed through "legitimate ad networks" but contain "malicious code" or direct users to "malicious sites". the report states that the threat of  malware  from web ads has increased almost three times since it last looked at data relating to the trend in 2012. cisco's 2014 annual security report noted that although mobile  malware  was "not a significant percentage" of web  malware  encounters "it is still worth noting because mobile  malware  is clearly an emerging area of exploration for  malware  developers". it also found that when mobile  malware  is intended to compromise a device, it is nearly always targeted at android devices. but when mobile  malware  is not specifically designed to target certain types of devices, then 70% of the attacks were experienced by android devices and 14% by apple iphone users. blue coat recommended that mobile users considered blocking web ads on their devices to prevent them becoming victims of a  malware  attack. ad-blocking apps exist for both android and apple devices and browser settings can be adjusted to prevent ad pop-ups. millions of java users are to be warned that they could be exposed to  malware  as a result of a flaw that existed in the software's update tool. the plug-in is installed on many pcs to let them to run small programs written in the java programming language. its distributor oracle has agreed to issue an alert on both social media and its own site following an investigation by the us's federal trade commission. by doing so it has avoided the risk of being fined. however, the firm has not formally admitted to any wrongdoing. according to the ftc's complaint, oracle was aware of security issues in the java se (standard edition) plug-in when it bought the technology's creator sun in 2010. "the security issues allowed hackers to craft  malware  that could allow access to consumers' usernames and passwords for financial accounts, and allow hackers to acquire other sensitive information," the ftc said.  the regulator alleged that oracle had promised consumers that installing its updates would ensure their pcs would be "safe and secure". but it said the firm had failed to acknowledge that a risk remained. this was because sun's original update process did not delete earlier versions of its software, which hackers could exploit to carry out their attacks. when oracle initially tried to address this, its update tool only removed the most recent prior version of java, leaving earlier editions behind. it was not until august 2014 that the company finally rectified the problem. oracle could not plead ignorance because the ftc had obtained internal documents dated from 2011 that stated "[the] java update mechanism is not aggressive enough or simply not working". according to the watchdog, java se is installed on more than 850 million computers.  because many of those will still not have installed the latest versions of the plug-in, the warning still serves a purpose and provides a link that can be used to detect and uninstall the code. java is still used to power some web browser-based games, calculator, chat tools and other functions. however, one expert said most users should take this opportunity to trash it. "java is one of the top three applications that criminals target," commented rik ferguson, vice president of security research at anti- malware  firm trend micro. "it comes pre-installed on a lot of machines, so a lot of people don't know they are using it. "there are times in some businesses where they may be internal applications that require java in the web browser, so you won't have much option, but our recommendation for others is to remove it and stop using it." mr ferguson added that the ruling sent out a message to other software providers that the ftc was concerned about update procedures and might not settle future cases without imposing a financial penalty. researchers from an american security company have unearthed a substantial  malware -based fraud ring. the operation has infiltrated one of brazil's most popular payment methods, boleto, for two years. an estimated 495,753 boleto transactions have been compromised, which means the hackers could have stolen up to $3.75bn (£2.18bn). researchers say it is not known whether the fraudsters were successful in collecting on all of the transactions. boleto bancario allows an individual to pay an exact amount to a merchant and can be used for almost every kind of transaction, from the weekly shop to phone bills. boletos can be used and generated both online for electric transfers and offline with printed paper. the attack has been described by us-based security company rsa, a division of data storage corporation emc, as "a major fraud operation and a serious cybercrime threat to banks, merchants and banking customers in brazil". it is not clear how much has been stolen or whether all the funds were successfully redirected to fraudster-controlled bank accounts. however, this will have been the largest electronic theft in history if even half of the valued worth turns out to be in the hands of criminals, according to the new york times. the number of infected pcs totals 192,227 - an additional 83,506 email user credentials have also been stolen. known colloquially as a man-in-the-browser threat, the  malware  silently injects itself into users' web browsers after hackers have initially tricked individuals into clicking malicious links in seemingly ordinary looking emails. this is similar in principle to  phishing  scams. once the  malware  is in the browser, fraudsters can begin to intercept and alter boleto details. this activity is invisible to the user. "because of its stealth capabilities, end-users also have little chance of detecting boleto fraud on their own," said rsa researchers. google's chrome, mozilla's firefox and microsoft's internet explorer are all vulnerable to the attack. "brazil has long been a hotbed of cybercrime, and although we don't know exactly what financial impact may have been caused by this sophisticated attack it's possible that different factors might have helped the hackers get away with it," said computer security analyst graham cluley. "sadly brazilian computers aren't always necessarily running the very latest anti-virus software, and because boletos aren't used outside of brazil it might have made security companies less vigilant about the threat." boletos are the second most popular payment method in brazil, responsible for an estimated 18% of all purchases during 2012. "such attacks will have a serious impact on the confidence we place in increasingly common digital payment methods," warned dr andrew rogoyski, chair of techuk cyber-security group. mr cluley advises users to "be cautious about opening unsolicited email attachments or clicking on unknown links, and keep your computer updated with security patches and the latest anti-virus". three people have been arrested in china on suspicion of spreading  malware  that targeted apple's operating system, chinese officials have announced. the beijing bureau of public security announced the arrest of suspects charged with spreading the wirelurker  malware . the bug was one of the first pieces of  malware  to penetrate iphone's strict software controls. it mainly infected devices in china. the suspects - named only as chen, lee and wang - were arrested in the beijing area,  according to the statement posted on chinese social network sina weibo. the chinese authorities also shut down the site that had been spreading the  malware . the  malware  was installed via software downloaded to mac desktops from the maiyadi app store. it was then able to attack ios devices connected to an infected mac via a usb cable. if a handset was jailbroken - a process used by some to remove apple's restrictions - wirelurker backed up the device's apps to the mac, where it repackaged them with  malware , and then installed the infected versions back on to the ios machine. but, according to security experts, the  malware  was also able to infect non-jailbroken ios devices. it did so by taking advantage of a technique created by apple to allow businesses to install special software on their staff's handsets and tablets. this process has since been changed by apple. by the time wirelurker had been discovered, infected mac apps had already been downloaded more than 300,000 times. apple took steps to block the infected apps and reminded users not to install software from third-party app stores. a windows version of the  malware  was also found. british police have arrested a 28-year-old man following an international series of raids over smartphone  malware  called droidjack. the uk's national crime agency (nca) confirmed the arrest after it was reported that raids took place in five european countries and the us. droidjack allows criminals to spy on smartphone data traffic, eavesdrop on conversations and hijack the camera. no further arrests have yet been reported. "i can confirm that the nca arrested a 28-year-old male from carlisle under suspicion of computer misuse act offences," an nca spokesman told the bbc. the spokesman said the arrest was made in connection with the international droidjack operation and added that the suspect has been bailed for six months. officers in the uk, germany, france, belgium and switzerland raided several properties connected to suspected users of  malware  known as droidjack. the searches were reported by the afp and reuters news agencies while europol also say that raids were conducted in the united states. a total of 13 homes were raided in germany according to the local prosecutor's office, while news agencies also reported a single raid in switzerland.  the german suspects were aged between 19 and 51.  droidjack is a remote access  spyware  or "rat", which is openly sold online for $210 (£137), and affects android devices only. "it can track a user's every move without their knowledge," explained peter coogan, principal security response manager at symantec. "there was a documented case back in 2014, i think, where it was being sent out via spam email and pretending to be a bank. it is likely at that time that they were trying to steal banking details off the phone," he told the bbc. mr coogan added that he has tracked discussion of the  malware  on underground hacking forums where droidjack has been marketed. "more people will have purchased it and are probably using it," he said. seventeen men have been arrested in the uk as part of a worldwide crackdown on a malicious computer program.  the fbi-co-ordinated operation targeted blackshades software which can remotely control computers and webcams. the " malware " was said to have infected more than 500,000 computers since 2010. the uk's national crime agency said 15 arrests took place in england and two men were held in scotland. eighty others were held in 15 countries including the us, france and germany. the nca said the inquiry focused on the developers and "prolific users" of blackshades. it said investigators believe about 200,000 usernames and passwords of victims across the world may have been taken by uk users of blackshades.  the software typically infects computers when people click on external links on social networking sites and in emails that purport to lead to pictures, videos or other items of interest, said the nca. once installed, criminals can use the software to capture personal information, or take photographs of computer users - which may be used to blackmail them. blackshades also allows users to take control of a computer secretly and encryption its data, which is only released on payment of a ransom.  the worldwide operation is reported to have come after the fbi arrested two blackshades developers and obtained a list of the  malware 's customers. the software was advertised on forums for computer hackers and copies were available for sale for about $40 (£23) each on a website maintained by blackshades, us officials said. the fbi said blackshades has been bought by several thousand people since it was created in 2010, generating sales of more than $350,000 (£208,000).  us officials said more than 500,000 computers in more than 100 countries had been infected by blackshades.  security experts have also linked the program to attacks on syrian dissidents in 2012 and attempts to steal data from more than a dozen french organisations.  details of the raids were outlined at a press conference by preet bharara, us attorney for the southern district of new york, who announced charges against five men. he described blackshades as a "frightening form of cybercrime" saying the program's capabilities were "sophisticated and its invasiveness breathtaking".  blackshades "enabled anyone anywhere in the world to instantly become a dangerous cyber-criminal able to steal your property and invade your privacy," he said. the  malware  could also be used to bring down websites and send out "ransom notes" to extort cash after telling a user they had lost control of their  computer, he added. the association of chief police officer's lead on e-crime, deputy chief constable peter goodman, said the operation "sends out a clear message to cyber criminals that we have the technology, capability and expertise to track them down". the nca said its officers were also to warn people who had downloaded the  malware  but not deployed it that they were now known to the agency.  in total more than 300 properties were searched across the world and 1,000 data storage devices seized. the arrests in the uk took place in derbyshire; birmingham; halesowen; wolverhampton; newcastle-under-lyme; brixham, devon; andover, hampshire; ashford, kent; liverpool; manchester; warrington; london; st andrews; glasgow, and leeds. further arrests abroad took place in moldova, switzerland, the netherlands, belgium, finland, austria, estonia, denmark, canada, chile, croatia and italy.  the end of the trump era has caused a collective but cautious sigh of relief in iran.  some in the gulf region feared that in the dying days of his presidency donald trump might choose to double down on his policy of "maximum pressure" on iran and launch a military strike on its civilian nuclear plants and other targets. reports from washington in november indicated this was one option the us president had looked at, before being talked out of it by his advisers. by contrast, president-elect joe biden has made it clear that he wants the us to rejoin the 2015 nuclear pact with iran, which would mean reversing sanctions and releasing money to tehran in exchange for iran's full compliance. so is iran now safe from attack?  in a word, no. israel remains extremely concerned, not just by iran's civilian nuclear activities but by its prolific programme to develop its arsenal of ballistic missiles.  on thursday, israel's defence minister benny gantz was quoted as saying, in reference to iran's nuclear development programme: "it is clear that israel needs to have a military option on the table. it requires resources and investment and i am working to make that happen." israel, as the islamic republic's declared enemy, sees a nuclear bomb in iranian hands as a threat to its very existence and has urged the world to stop it before it is too late.  iran has always insisted its nuclear programme is purely peaceful, but its recent action to increase the enrichment of its uranium - one of a sequence which contravene the 2015 deal - has set alarm bells ringing.  in 1981, israel suspected that iraqi president saddam hussein was looking to acquire a nuclear weapons capability.  in operation babylon, it took pre-emptive action by carrying out a successful air raid using its own f15 and f16 jets, destroying iraq's osirak nuclear reactor.  twenty-six years later, in 2007, it did the same to syria in operation outside the box, destroying a secret plutonium reactor in the desert near deir al-zour just before it was activated. but iran is a far harder target, in terms of distance, accessibility and air defences. it is questionable whether israel could carry out a successful air raid without us participation - something a biden administration will be reluctant to do.  conscious of the longstanding threat to its nuclear facilities - from the us, israel and possibly the gulf arab states - iran has invested money and effort in burying some of them deep underground, beneath its mountains.  iran's nuclear industry, while ostensibly civilian, is closely entwined with its military and security infrastructure.  in fact, the iranians have had so long to prepare for an attack that there is now a distinct possibility that their underground facilities are becoming impenetrable. despite this, iran's nuclear facilities remain vulnerable to attack on three fronts. "iran's facilities are not impregnable," says mark fitzpatrick, an associate fellow at the international institute for strategic studies (iiss) and an expert on arms control.  "[the one at] natanz is vulnerable to precise bunker-busting bombing, maybe taking two precise hits: one to dig a crater and the other to burst through it or at least to shake the delicate machines enough to put them out of commission." but iran is a vast country and its nuclear facilities are spread out in depth.  as far back as 2012 experts suggested that the uranium enrichment facility at fordo, buried at least 80m (260ft) inside a mountain, might be impregnable to even the devastating explosive power of us "bunker-busting" precision-guided bombs. "fordo's greater depth protects the facility against bunker-busters, but not against sabotage," says mark fitzpatrick, "and it could be put out of commission for a period of months by blasting its entryways and airshafts". but to reach these facilities would require one, possibly two waves of air strikes penetrating deep into iranian airspace and either evading or overpowering its air defences.  iran has invested heavily in developing its surface-to-air missile force, including the bavar-373 - a homegrown version of russia's s-300 system that is capable of tracking and shooting down aircraft up to 300km (186 miles) away. the prospect of an only partially successful strike, with downed pilots captured and paraded on iranian tv, is a strong disincentive. this has already been happening.  israel's mossad intelligence agency has managed to develop an extraordinarily well-informed network of agents inside iran.  so well-informed that when iran's top military scientist, brig gen mohsen fakhrizadeh, was travelling in a protected convoy on a lonely road east of tehran on 27 november his attackers knew his precise route and timings.  reports differ on how he was attacked on that day. iran claims it was by a remote, satellite-controlled machine gun mounted on a pick-up truck. other sources believe it was by a sizable team of mossad-trained agents, who escaped and remain at large.  either way, fakhrizadeh - known as "the godfather of iran's nuclear programme", who us intelligence says carried out covert work on nuclear weapons - was assassinated.  how will iran respond to nuclear scientist's killing?what were the motives behind the killing?after trump, what will biden do about iran?what is behind mysterious fires at iran sites? israel has not commented officially on who was behind it. before that, between 2010 and 2012, four leading iranian nuclear scientists were all assassinated inside iran, some by car bombs.  again, israel neither confirmed nor denied its involvement. but the killings show that despite heavy protection by iranian state security, assassins are able to reach their targets, setting back iran's intellectual capacity in nuclear technology. there is an undeclared war going on in cyberspace, with iran on one side and the us, israel and saudi arabia ranged against it. in 2010, a sophisticated piece of  malware  codenamed stuxnet was secretly introduced into the computers controlling iran's uranium-enriching centrifuges at natanz.  the result was chaos, causing the centrifuges to spin out of control and setting the enrichment programme back by years.  the cyber attack was widely reported to have been israeli, although us and israeli experts are believed to have collaborated on developing stuxnet.  iran soon hit back, successfully inserting its own sophisticated  malware  codenamed shamoon into the network of saudi arabia's state-owned oil company, saudi aramco, disabling 30,000 computers and threatening saudi arabia's oil production.  further attacks have followed. the 2015 nuclear deal - the joint comprehensive plan of action - was supposed to place such stringent curbs on iran's nuclear activities that it would negate the need for its adversaries to consider a military strike. but israel and saudi arabia were always sceptical about the deal because they considered it too lenient and temporary, and because it did nothing to address iran's ballistic missile programme.  today, they are less than enthusiastic about a biden presidency reviving the deal unless it addresses those concerns.   nobody in the gulf region wants to see another conflict. even the 2019 missile attack on saudi arabia's oil infrastructure, widely blamed on iran and its allies, went unanswered.  but as long as suspicions remain that iran is secretly working on developing a nuclear warhead capability, then the risk of a pre-emptive attack on its facilities will always be there. cyber thieves who target android phones are getting more sophisticated, suggests a report.  malware  makers are tailoring their creations to make the most of conditions in each territory, said the report by mobile security firm lookout. in some places such as russia, android users were far more likely to encounter malicious code, it said.  the report comes as analysis of apps on google's play store shows a steep rise in the number of malicious programs. "when it comes to mobile  malware , everything is now regionalised," said marc rogers, lookout's principal security researcher. gone were the days when the hi-tech thieves spammed their creations out to everyone, he said. now  malware  varied by region as it was adapted to the different conditions in those places.  in europe, wider use of security software on smartphones and action by industry groups against some types of fraudulent activity had forced a reaction from the  malware  makers. "most of europe is now a hostile environment for premium-rate  malware ," said mr rogers. "you can do it, but it is very difficult to monetise." instead, he said, europe was seeing a rise in so-called chargeware that tries to trick people into paying for a service or app. pornographic apps were the biggest users of this tactic, he said. similarly, the us had seen less use of premium-rate scams in favour of apps that steal data, such as login information for online banking systems. however, mr rogers said premium-rate  malware  was still very prevalent in russia where many people got their apps from unofficial sites rather than google's play store, putting the country ahead of the world in terms of the percentage of android users who were likely to encounter malicious apps of all sorts, he said.  the "encounter rate" for the average russian android user was 68%, he said. by contrast, encounter rates in the us and europe were about 4%.  lookout's report, based on stats using feedback from its 50 million users, comes as another security company, riskiq, said it had seen a huge rise in the number of malicious programs appearing on google's play store.  in 2011 about 10,000 of the 400,000 apps on the play store were malicious in one way or another. in 2013 the total number of apps hit one million and riskiq said 42,000 of these could be classed as malicious. apps that helped people personalise their phone were the most likely to be malicious, said riskiq. russian hackers targeted this year's olympic games in tokyo with the aim of disrupting them, uk officials said. the foreign office said russia's gru military intelligence carried out "cyber reconnaissance" against officials and organisations involved. the alleged attacks took place before the games were postponed until 2021 because of the coronavirus pandemic. officials did not, however, specify the nature or extent of the cyber-attacks in detail. at the same time, the us department of justice announced charges against six russian gru officers for alleged cyber-attacks  serving "the strategic benefit of russia". the group sought to disrupt the 2018 winter olympics, the 2017 french presidential election, and ukraine's power grid, us prosecutors said. "no country has weaponised its cyber capabilities as maliciously or irresponsibly as russia," assistant attorney general john demers told a press conference, calling it "the most disruptive and destructive series of computer attacks ever attributed to a single group". uk foreign secretary dominic raab said the attacks targeting organisers, sponsors, and logistics providers of the tokyo olympic and paralympic games were "cynical and reckless". "we condemn them in the strongest possible terms," he said. "the uk will continue to work with our allies to call out and counter future malicious cyber-attacks." foreign office officials also revealed details of the attack on the 2018 winter olympics in pyeongchang, south korea. on that occasion, the operation was a "false flag" - one designed to look like it came from north korea or china, they said. the uk and us have been trying to increase the pressure on russian hackers for a number of years by publicly exposing their activity, and they will be hoping that news of moscow targeting an event like the olympics will draw wider support from other countries.  it is thought that this attempt at disruption, like the 2018 attack on the winter olympics, was in response to russia being excluded from sporting events for doping violations. two years ago, some attendees were unable to print tickets for the opening ceremony, leaving empty seats, and this is the first time the uk government has formally attributed that attack to russia. western intelligence officials believe there is some disruption caused by the exposure of moscow's practices and specific techniques, forcing the hackers to adapt.  but there is not much sign that the public campaign is forcing a rethink over their willingness to engage in such activity. the 2018 winter olympics operation is said to have taken aim at the opening ceremony - targeting broadcasters, officials, sponsors, and even a ski resort.  the uk's national cyber security centre, which helped to analyse the information, said the 2018 attack was "intended to sabotage the running of the winter olympic and paralympic games" by disabling its networks. one method was to deploy  malware  that deleted data from the computer systems used that year. it was prevented by it officials cutting off affected computers and replacing them entirely to prevent the  malware  from spreading, it said. uk officials have attributed several cyber-attacks against major organisations to gru units operating under various names such as sandworm, voodoobear and iron viking. the foreign office itself was subjected to one such attack in 2018, when gru-affiliated hackers attempted to access its computer systems using a spear phishing  attack. an attempt to stop prosecutors using messages from hundreds of phones that were part of the encrochat secret communications network in court has been rejected by the appeal court. judges ruled the messages, obtained by french police by hacking the phones, were not gained by "interception". under british law, evidence from interception cannot be used in court. the national crime agency believes encrochat was mainly used by criminals, often to trade drugs and guns. the judgement will have major implications for cases against suspected organised criminals around the country. due to legal restrictions, it is the first time the bbc can report the detail of arguments surrounding encrochat, which was penetrated by police last summer resulting in more than 1,000 arrests. the nca, which obtained the evidence from france, said it was the biggest breakthrough ever in the fight against organised crime. hundreds arrested as crime chat network crackedhaulier ran europe-wide drug ring from living roomdrugs boss captured as police crack coded messages senior officers described it "as akin to cracking the enigma code". the messages, sent by suspects who did not know they were being monitored, detail alleged drug dealing and murder plots, and include images and videos. many of the cases based on "encro" evidence are now going to court, and if this judgement had ruled the messages couldn't be used, some trials may have been abandoned. under long-standing british law, designed to protect intelligence techniques from scrutiny and make criminal trials manageable, intercepted evidence can't be used in court. in 2016, parliament passed the investigatory powers act in a massive overhaul of surveillance law. the act introduced a "double lock" that requires interception warrants to be authorised by a secretary of state and approved by a judge. in a 2015 factsheet on the bill before it became law, the home office defined interception as "making available the content of a communication to someone other than the sender or intended recipient during the course of its transmission. in practice that means listening to a phone call or reading an email". but the lord chief justice, lord burnett of maldon, lord justice edis, and mrs justice whipple dismissed an appeal by lawyers for encrochat defendants. the key legal argument centred on a piece of " malware " placed by french experts on encrochat phones worldwide. it sent copies of every message to a police server. france has refused to say how, what it called "the implant", worked, creating legal uncertainty in british courts. encrochat was a private messaging service that promised its users secure and secretive communications. as well as the encrochat messaging app, the company developed a modified version of the android operating system and sold altered smartphones known as "carbon units" to run its software. switched on by pressing just the power button, the phones would load a "dummy" android homescreen. but activated another way they would boot into encrochat mode. getting hold of an encrochat phone was not cheap, and the subscription charges were more than £200 a month. messages sent between handsets were end-to-end  encryption : scrambled as they travelled across the internet, making them practically impossible to decode if intercepted. but in june 2020, the company warned its users that an attack had comprised its handsets and advised them to "physically dispose of your device immediately". if the implant had collected the messages as they were being transmitted, this would amount to interception of the communications. the defence lawyers claimed the implant was taking messages from the phones' memory, milliseconds before being sent to their wifi or mobile data transmitters and therefore the data was "in transmission". but the judges decided the data was in fact being stored temporarily on the devices as it was processed, before being transmitted. they said this was evident because during the actual transmission the message were  encryption , and therefore couldn't have been read, as they were by the police. the data collected also included crucial username information from the phone's storage memory, which is not sent as part of the transmission. in friday's judgement they compared the process with that of sending a letter: "the process involves the letter being written, put in an envelope, a stamp being attached and then the letter being placed in the post box.   "only the last act involves the letter being transmitted by a system, but all the acts are essential to that transmission." families of those arrested during the fall-out from the encrochat penetration have been arguing online that the nca broke the law by accessing and reading messages "in real time", as they were being sent. they say british law enforcement agencies effectively allowed a foreign power, france, to hack the phones of 9,000 uk encrochat users. police claimed that in general, using an encrochat phone, which cost thousands of pounds to own and operate, demonstrated a likely involvement in criminal activity. but suspects' supporters say innocent family members were caught up in a race to make use of the encro messages, because police feared they would be criticised if they were not seen to take action. however the decision of the appeal court was that the evidence was collected lawfully. jamie oliver's website was affected by a " malware  problem", a spokesman for the celebrity chef has acknowledged. malicious code sought to exploit vulnerabilities in users' systems and install  malware , researchers found. if installed, that  malware  could give hackers control of users' computers, said one security consultant. a spokesman for the jamie oliver group played down the seriousness of the problem and told the bbc that it had been fixed. according to  malware bytes, unknown hackers either broke into mr oliver's site and placed malicious code there, or exploited existing code. the script would direct unsuspecting users to a wordpress site that hosted yet more malicious code. that would then run an exploit kit that would seek to find vulnerabilities in any user's system and install  malware  called dorkbot. online security consultant graham cluley said the hackers could then gain control of a user's system and direct fake searches. "in other words, you may think you're googling but, in fact, you are being redirected against your will to search results that earn the attackers affiliate cash," he told the bbc. "in addition, you may find that you are tricked into installing bogus security updates on your computer or told to ring what is claimed to be technical support - although you would actually be speaking to scammers after your credit card details." according to a spokesman for jamie oliver, only 10 users had written to the site about the issue in the past couple of days. he said that a "low-level  malware  problem" was identified and dealt with and that the site was now "safe to use". the spokesman added: "the jamie oliver website is regularly checked for vulnerabilities by both our in-house team and an independent third party, and they quickly deal with anything that is found.  "the team is confident that no data has been compromised in this incident, but if anyone is worried do please use the contact form on the site. "we apologise to anyone who was at all worried after going on the site." the spokesman confirmed that existing code on the site was modified by a hacker, but said the website team was still trying to work out when that had happened. the celebrity chef's site has 10 million visitors per month and is ranked 515th in britain, according to an analyst. mr cluley said that its sheer popularity made the problem "serious". he said: "users would hope that there was tight security in place on the website to prevent this kind of attack from happening - but it appears that things went badly wrong on this occasion." jerome segura, of  malware bytes, uncovered the issue. he said that, during tests, the  malware  sought to exploit adobe flash, microsoft silverlight and oracle java. mr cluley advised users to run up-to-date antivirus software and the latest patches to secure applications. he added that users should avoid running their computers with admin privileges, "as this is more attractive for attackers". the us national security agency (nsa) infected 50,000 networks with  malware , dutch newspaper nrc has reported. the tailored access operations department used it to steal sensitive information, according to a censored slide leaked by former nsa contractor edward snowden. nrc said 20,000 networks had been hit in 2008, with the program recently expanded to include others in rome, berlin, pristina, kinshasa, rangoon. the nsa declined to comment. the  malware  could be put in a "sleeper" mode and activated with a click of a button, the paper said. "clearly, conventional criminal gangs aren't the only people interested in breaking into computer networks anymore," wrote computer security expert graham cluley in a blogpost.  "all organisations need to ask themselves the question of whether they could be at risk." the reports come as twitter introduces technology it says will help protect people's messages from unwanted scrutiny.  it  has employed a system known as "forward secrecy" that makes it harder for eavesdroppers to access the keys used to encryption data passing between twitter's servers and users' phones, tablets and pcs. the website of british tv chef, jamie oliver has been hit for a third time by  malware  that potentially infects the computers of visitors to the site.  it is the third attack on jamieoliver.com in four months.  the security company that found the exploit,  malware bytes says the attack, which redirects users to  malware , is similar to the previous two.  a spokesperson for jamie oliver said they were working "to find the issue".    malware bytes says the problem was caused by a link on the site redirecting users to what appears to be a compromised website that contains links to download the malicious code.  victims without adequate security against such attacks could then find their pcs are compromised with a program running in the background which scans for and steals passwords, sending them on in a report to criminals behind the scam without the users' knowledge. "the team in charge of jamie oliver's website has acknowledged the issue and is taking steps to remediate this problem once and for all," the security company told the bbc.  "obviously no-one in charge of a website likes to see  malware  come back time and time again. website  malware  is a different beast to windows-based  malware . "the problem is that often people will get rid of the obvious signs (the symptoms)...  but not what caused it in the first place."  "we've implemented daily..  malware  detection scans, also an industry leading web application firewall to protect against all common security attacks.. which has been blocking numerous hacking attempts," said a spokesperson for the website.   "we're working with a number of security companies to find the issue once and for all.  we're also running daily manual checks which have detected and cleaned a number of threats although it's important to note that we have had no reports from any users that have been put at risk."  malware bytes said the best way web users could protect themselves from becoming a victim of such attacks was to keep their security software up-to-date.  russian police have reportedly arrested a man on suspicion of masterminding two infamous hacking tools. he is suspected of being the man behind the alias paunch - the nickname used by the creator of the blackhole and cool exploit kits, sold to cybercriminals to infect web users with  malware . the russian authorities have not confirmed the details. but security firms said they had already detected a decline in the programs' use. a spokesman for the law enforcement agency europol told the bbc: "europol and the european cybercrime centre has been informed that a high-level suspected cyber criminal has been arrested.  "we can only refer you to the russian authorities, they are the ones who should speak about this topic." the russian police's press office said it had nothing to add at this time. however, alexander gostev, chief security expert at the moscow-based internet protection provider kaspersky lab, said the arrest had been confirmed to him by "anonymous sources". the blackhole kit, released in 2010, dominated the crimeware market throughout 2012 and the start of 2013, according to fraser howard, a researcher at the anti-virus company sophos. he said the code had been sold for an annual licence of $1,500 (£940) or could be rented from its creator for $200 (£125) for one week's use, among other price plans. the software targeted a range of vulnerabilities in the java programming language, adobe's flash media player, windows software and pdf files. it had two ways of doing this: adding malicious code to hundreds of thousands of legitimate websites, which then copied  malware  to visitors computerscreating links in spam messages to specially created sites that infected pcs among the  malware  downloaded was: fake anti-virus software that falsely claimed the pc was infected and urged the user to pay a fee to remove computer-virus es spyware s that attempted to steal financial records stored on the pcthe zeroaccess rootkit, which downloaded other software that hijacked the pc for use in a  malicious-bot  - a facility used to overwhelm websites with traffic and force them offlinekey loggers that took a record of what was typed on the pc ransomware  that attempted to blackmail the pc owner although mr howard said blackhole was once the biggest threat of its kind, he added that in recent months it had been overshadowed by rival kits, including sweet orange and neutrino. according to the researcher, the blackhole and cool kits put together were only involved in about 4% of all  malware  detected by sophos in august, down from 28% the previous year.  the figure had since dropped to 2% in recent days, he added. another independent security blogger stressed that the arrest was still significant. "if it's true that the brains behind the blackhole has been apprehended it's a very big deal - a real coup for the cybercrime-fighting authorities, and hopefully cause disruption to the development of one of the most notorious exploit kits the web has ever seen," said graham cluley. "however, it's worth remembering that nature abhors a vacuum, and there would surely be other online criminals waiting to take their place, promoting their alternative exploit kits and malicious code." mikko hypponen, chief research officer at f-secure, agreed. "if indeed it is paunch that they arrested, that is a major arrest - he is a big deal," he told the bbc. "he was clearly the biggest player in providing exploit kits - not just by selling them, but also renting and leasing them to online criminals. "both blackhole and its successor cool have been very popular.  "users didn't have to be very technical to operate them - there was a manual that came with them - they just had to get them running and be able to break into a high-profile website, or create a new one from scratch, to install something bad on your computer." the us federal bureau of investigation (fbi) has warned that cyber-hackers have used  malware  to launch destructive attacks in the us. a five-page confidential warning was issued to us businesses on monday, according to reuters news agency.  the software would make it impossible to recover any lost data, the fbi said.  the warning follows a confirmation from the fbi that it is investigating last week's hack into sony pictures entertainment's network. sony pictures was forced to shut down its corporate network in the attack and some of its unreleased films have also been leaked online. but the warning from the us authorities did not name any victims that have been targeted. instead, it provided some technical details about the  malware  and advice on how to handle such an attack. there have been accusations that north korea may have been responsible for the attack on sony pictures after the country's government described a film due to be released by the studio on christmas day as an "undisguised sponsoring of terrorism as well as an act of war".  the interview, starring seth rogan and james franco, tells the story of a cia plot to assassinate the north korean leader.  pyongyang has written letters to the un secretary general and president barack obama asking for the film to be blocked, but when asked if it was involved in the cyber-attack on sony, a spokesman only said "wait and see".  sony has not accused north korea of involvement and said it was investigating the source of the hacking. adverts on yahoo's homepage were infected with  malware  designed to mine the bitcoin virtual currency, according to security experts. yahoo confirmed that for a four-day period in january,  malware  was served in ads on its homepage. experts estimate that as many as two million european users could have been hit. security firm light cyber said the  malware  was intended to create a huge network of bitcoin mining machines. "the  malware  writers put a lot of effort into making it as efficient as possible to utilise the computing power in the best way," light cyber's founder giora engel told the bbc. bitcoin mining  malware  is designed to steal computing power to make it easier for criminals to accumulate the virtual currency with little effort on their part. "generating bitcoins is basically guessing numbers," said amichai shulman, chief technology office of security firm imperva. "the first one to guess the right number gets 25 bitcoins and if you have a large volume of computers guessing in a co-ordinated way then you have a more efficient way of making money," he added. other than a computer running slower, victims will be unaware that their machine is being used in what could become known as a "bitnet". it is a variation on the traditional  malicious-bot , networks of  malware -infected computers used to churn out spam or bombard websites with requests in order to knock them offline. some experts estimate that such networks could be generating as much as $100,000 (£60,000) each day. since bitcoins have risen in value - at its peak one bitcoin was worth $1,000 - making it a lucrative market for online criminals. "bitcoin mining  malware  is the new frontier as criminal gangs look for new ways to make money," said mr engel. yahoo acknowledged the attack in a statement earlier this week. "from december 31 to january 3 on our european sites, we served some advertisements that did not meet our editorial guidelines - specifically, they spread  malware ," the statement read. it went on to say that users in america, asia and latin america weren't affected but did not specify how many european users were victims. fox it, the dutch cybersecurity firm which revealed the  malware  attack, estimates that there were around 27,000 infections every hour the  malware  was live on the site. over the period of the attack that could mean as many as two million machines were infected. such attacks may be hard to avoid, said mr shulman. "for an ad platform it is virtually impossible to guarantee 100%  malware  free ads." "there are many independent stakeholders involved in the process of web advertising, so from time to time any ad platform is bound to deliver  malware ." with a couple of mouse clicks amateur cyber thieves can quickly create  malware  that steals cash from smartphones.the growing number of such kits is behind the rapid rise in the number of computer-virus es aimed at owners and users of mobiles.kevin mahaffey, chief technology officer at lookout mobile security, demonstrates how easy it is to create mobile  malware . south africa has been hit by one of the biggest cyber-fraud attacks in its history, according to the body that oversees local financial transactions. the payment card systems of thousands of shops, restaurants and hotels had been compromised, said the payment association of south africa (pasa). losses were thought to be in the "tens of millions, but not hundreds of millions of rands", it said. it added the attackers had used a new variant of the  malware  known as dexter. ten million rand is worth £626,000 or just over $1m. dexter gets its name from a string of code found in one of its files, which may refer to the us television show that followed the exploits of a serial killer. the dexter code was linked to a series of attacks on point-of-sale systems in the uk, us and dozens of other countries towards the end of last year. it skims and transmits the cards' magnetic-strip information, allowing clones to be made that can then be used for fraudulent purchases,. pasa said it believed the criminals responsible were based in europe, but added it was not sure from which countries. "it's probably the worst [attack] of its kind in terms of the losses," walter volker, pasa's chief executive, told the bbc. "we started detecting higher levels of fraud at some of these retailers early in the year - from about late-january, february. we initially thought it was a normal seasonal thing, but as the volumes increased we decided to appoint a forensics investigation company. "eventually it was able to find this particular  malware  in some of the locations. very soon after we found the cause of the compromise, we were able to clean up those sites with anti- malware  software." mr volker added that while the attack had targeted back-end systems to steal data from the cards' magstrips, it had not stolen pin codes or cvv payment authentication numbers - meaning the thieves would not have been able to withdraw money from bank cash machines or have used the information to make purchases from internet shops. "normal anti-virus software would probably have cleaned up dexter but it was a particular custom-built variant, which was not detectable with the normal scanning software that everybody's got," mr volker added. "it seems like it was a european-based syndicate - we don't exactly where - but interpol and europol are making good progress in trying to apprehend these particular perpetrators." kfc fast-food restaurants' card systems were among those to have been compromised, according to a statement given by the chain's owner to the bloomberg news agency. "we take this extremely seriously," yum brands said. "our first priority is to make sure that the impact on our customers remains minimal." bloomberg added that a locally based burger and pizza chain operator, famous brands, had also confirmed some of its payment machines had been exposed. however, pasa stressed that it would ultimately be the banks - rather than the public or other businesses - that would face losses as a consequence of the attack. "in terms of the banks, there's probably not a single issuing bank in the country that has not been affected in some way," said mr volker. "the south african card holders - or potentially tourists using their cards at the affected sites - will not be exposed to any losses. it's just the inconvenience of detecting false transactions on their accounts. "if that has happened they should just contact their issuing bank." the uk's data privacy regulator has told organisations under its watch they should "immediately check" if they have been affected by the solarwinds hack. the texas-based company - which provides computer network management tools to a wide variety of clients - recently disclosed one of its leading products had been compromised. the watchdog reminded those holding data on uk citizens they had 72 hours to report a breach once discovered. officials continue to study the impact. last week, a security source told the bbc that the investigators believed only a small number of british organisations had been affected and none were in the public sector. however, since then it has been reported that the accountants deloitte, chip-makers intel and nvidia, and cloud-computing software maker vmware are all among those who have used the orion network monitoring tool that was altered to provide the hackers a backdoor. there are also indications that the us treasury and departments of homeland security, state, defence and commerce were also targeted via the breach, which has been dubbed "sunburst". us secretary of state mike pompeo and attorney general bill barr have both accused russia of being responsible, as have several cyber-security experts. however, president donald trump has muddied the waters by suggesting china could be behind the attack. both the kremlin and the chinese government have denied involvement. solarwinds published its own guidance to its clients on its website last week, however the whole site now appears to be offline. solarwinds has said that it believes "fewer than 18,000" of its customers had installed the compromised orion updates. bruce schneier, a leading cyber-security researcher, has written in the guardian that "it's hard to overstate how bad this is". it will take years to learn which networks the svr [russian espionage agency] has penetrated, and where it still has access." but he noted that the us national security agency (nsa) was probably running similar offensive operations of its own on the same scale. even so, president-elect joe biden has promised the us will respond in turn, and mentioned suspicions that russia was to blame. "we can't let this go unanswered. that means making clear and publicly who is responsible for the attack and taking meaningful steps to hold them in account," he said in a speech on tuesday. mr biden also noted that the department of defense had refused to brief him on "many things" including the attack. uk assessing impact of major hacking campaignrussia behind major cyber-attack, says pompeosolarwinds: why the sunburst hack matters  the uk's national cyber security centre has also urged organisations to take steps to protect their networks. "this is a complex, global cyber-incident," said its director of operations, paul chichester. "but simply having solarwinds does not automatically make an organisation vulnerable to real-world impact." to further complicate matters, microsoft has said its own inquiry into the breach has uncovered a further problem. "in an interesting turn of events, the investigation of the whole solarwinds compromise led to the discovery of an additional  malware  that also affects the solarwinds orion product but has been determined to be likely unrelated to this compromise and used by a different threat actor," it said in a blog published on friday. it added that that the malicious code provided the perpetrator the means to install and run their own software on a target's machines. microsoft did not speculate as to whom this second attacker might be or how they might have exploited the hack. sophisticated  malware  aimed at governments and finance firms was probably created by a nation state, say security researchers. mask was uncovered by kaspersky labs and the code is thought to have been targeting victims for seven years. the software is among the "most advanced threats" the company has ever seen, it said in a lengthy analysis. the web-wide activities of mask stopped last week soon after kaspersky revealed its existence. kaspersky said mask had hit targets in 31 countries and infected more than 380 separate organisations and businesses.  it used a variety of techniques to compromise machines and, in some cases, its creators seem to have bought undocumented vulnerabilities in software in order to penetrate some targets.  different versions of mask were prepared by its creators so no matter what operating system people used, be it windows, apple ios or linux, they were vulnerable. kaspersky said it also suspected that versions of mask were available that could attack android or apple smartphones. the software gets its name from the regular appearance of the spanish word for mask (careto) in its core code. other hints in the code suggest it originated in a spanish-speaking nation. kaspersky said it suspected mask was created by a nation state to help it spy but declined to speculate about which country was behind it.  top of the target list were organisations in morocco but institutions and companies in brazil, the uk, france and spain and many other nations were also caught out.  as well as governments and private equity firms, other victims included embassies, oil and gas companies, activist groups and research labs. once it managed to infect a system, the computer-virus  stole documents,  encryption  keys, private network credentials and remote access information.  soon after kaspersky uncovered mask it took action with other computer firms to shut 90 of the command-and-control systems keeping it running.  so far, said symantec security researcher liam o'murchu, it was not clear who was behind mask or what they were after.  "just looking at the targets, it is not obvious who would want to target them; there is no obvious pattern," he told reuters.  "the code is professionally written, but it's even difficult to say whether is it written by a government or by a private company that sells this type of software." some 79% of malicious attacks on mobiles in 2012 occurred on devices running google's android operating system, us authorities have said. public information website public intelligence published the department of homeland security and the federal bureau of investigation memo to us police and emergency medical personnel. nokia's symbian system, on the finnish company's basic-feature handsets, had had the second-most  malware  attacks. apple's ios had had 0.7% of attacks. android is the world's most popular mobile operating system, and the memo blamed its high share of attacks on its "market share and open-source architecture". text  spyware s -  malware  that sends sms messages to premium-rate numbers without the phone owners' knowledge - accounted for half of the android attacks on old versions of the system.  the memo also cited fake sites that appeared to be like google's play marketplace and "rootkits" that allowed hackers to track a user's keystrokes and passwords. it said 44% of android users were still using older versions of the operating system - specifically 2.3.3 through 2.3.7, dubbed gingerbread and released in 2011. these have a "number of security vulnerabilities that were fixed in later versions", the memo added.  "the growing use of mobile devices by federal, state, and local authorities makes it more important than ever to keep mobile os patched and up-to-date," it said. apple has said that more than 93% of the 600 million iphones and ipads sold run  ios 6, the latest version of the operating system.  the next version is expected to be released to the public next month. this is the not the first time the open nature of google's popular phone software has been questioned.  security firm symantec noted last month that a "master key" bug - which allows attackers to take control of android phones - was being exploited in china.  the bug exploited a vulnerability in all android apps, which contain an  encryption  signature that the operating system uses to check the program is legitimate and has not been tampered with. you might think the world's most powerful man would have access to any gadget he chooses - but when it comes consumer tech, joe biden may be sorely disappointed.  the electronic devices around the us president are perhaps the most prominent hacking targets in the world.  "the odds are zero, that [russia] aren't targeting world leaders," harvard kennedy school lecturer bruce schneier says. back in the 2000s, this wasn't such a big problem - the only personal devices that could be hacked were computers and non-smart mobile phones.  and why would the president need a mobile, when he could ask to be patched through to anyone in the world on a secure line. but that all changed in 2009, when barack obama took office.  he was so attached to his blackberry he fought with security advisers for weeks to keep it - a fight he eventually won "through a compromise that allows him to stay in touch with senior staff and a small group of personal friends", according to an official. and since then, the range of tech devices a president might want to use has steadily increased - giving security advisers sleepless nights.  when the ipad came out, in 2010, of course, the president wanted one.  so national-security advisers created the obamapad, a "hardened", more secure ipad, which, a former adviser tells bbc news, was replicated for his staff. "in the obama administration, for senior staff, it was common to have an ipad that had... certain modifications to it," says ari schwartz, a national security council cyber-security official during the obama administration. nevertheless, the tech set-up of the white house remained somewhat old fashioned. "there's no wi-fi," mr schwartz says. "and we actually had a little bit of a discussion at one point about adding wi-fi. "it was more of a discussion like, 'why can't we have wi-fi in the white house?' "and the feeling was, 'well, then you're opening up security lapses.'"  the obamas' residence eventually installed wi-fi. but it remained patchy at best, according to the family. donald trump, arguably the most famous man on twitter during his term, also insisted on using a personal device, reportedly a series of "burner" phones used briefly and then replaced for security reasons. but he was also widely reported to be sceptical of computer use and email, preferring paper for most communications. if the ipad gave tech advisers a few sleepless nights back in the day, the internet of things, today, represents a recurring nightmare. "everything is becoming a computer," mr schneier says. "and those computers are vulnerable.  "whether it's your peloton bike or your phone, your refrigerator, your thermostat, toys, your car - these are all vulnerable to hacking."  and that is a problem for president biden, who seems to like his gadgets.  he has been photographed wearing an apple watch and reportedly owns a peloton exercise bike that comes with a computer screen, camera, and microphone all connected to the internet.  can that be made secure?  "you can do things like modify the hardware, like ripping the camera out, that's something that the nsa [national security agency] can do," mr schneier says. and that may be safer. but it may also defeat the purpose of having high-end technology in the first place. herbert lin, of the university of stanford, says: "it's very rare that you find a device that can't be hacked. "most devices that can't be hacked are pretty useless because they can't communicate." the safest thing is simply to not use any tech gadgets at all.  but, as the previous two presidents proved, that is a hard thing to tell the commander-in-chief. according to mr biden's biographer evan osnos, the president also uses the apple news app. and this too could be a problem.  in fact, mr schwartz says, software can be hardest to protect. "the software side, it's a lot harder to maintain good security around, because everything is updated from afar now," he says. "you might be totally secure right now, the day that you buy the product.  "but then a year from now, someone could come in and install  malware  into it and destroy the security that you had originally." and mr schneier shares these concerns. "everything is a potential vulnerability… apple news, everything, because it's all connected, because anything can affect any other thing," he says.  "that's why this is so complicated.  "that's why ditching the device is often the best security advice, even if it's not practical."  late last year, news broke us government networks had been compromised by suspected russian hackers. the massive solar winds hack reportedly affected the treasury and commerce departments and homeland security.   even worse, once the hackers were in, they lay undetected for months.  the hack showed two things:  foreign actors are looking for cracks in us cyber-securitythere are gaps to be found  the nightmare scenario is a president's device is hacked, which then goes unnoticed.  and that a hack has happened so recently - and so close to the white house - will have president biden's security team worried.  "say the president's iphone is hacked," mr lin says.  "now, you have a homing beacon that the president is carrying." mr biden is entering a white house nervous about cyber-security.  and advisers know what is most secure and what the president wants are not usually aligned.  president biden may be the most powerful person in the most powerful country in the world.  but he may also have a fight on his hands to keep the gadgets many others take for granted. james clayton is the bbc's north america technology reporter based in san francisco. follow him on twitter @jamesclayton5. samsung has signed a deal with an anti-virus firm to offer improved protection to its galaxy-branded android devices. it will use san francisco-based lookout's software to scan handsets and tablets for threats. the feature will be targeted at business users as part of the firm's forthcoming knox security product, which was announced in february. numerous studies have indicated that many hackers have focused their efforts on google's android system. analysts said the move was designed to reassure companies that samsung's android phones were a safe alternative to the blackberry and windows phone platforms which have promoted their enterprise security facilities as key features. lookout's chief executive blogged that  malware  protection had become increasingly important at a time more employees were linking their own devices to office networks. "one in three companies now allow employees to bring their own devices to work, and whether or not it's allowed, employees are doing so and company data is being accessed outside of the corporate network, potentially putting that data at risk," wrote john hering. the company said its servers would scan samsung's mobile devices against known  malware  that could be introduced via email attachments, webpages or file-sharing services. other anti-virus firms have also been quick to play up the threat to android devices. kaspersky recently announced that it had detected 57,000 new examples of  malware  specifically targeting the operating system since the start of the year.  mcafee has also warned that new types of  spyware  and code designed to bypass bank id protection had helped swell the amount of android  malware  by 35% in the april-to-june quarter. the us government has also issued its own alert suggesting 79% of all  malware  threats to mobile operating systems were directed at android in 2012. "android is the most insecure mobile system of all the mobile ones, and that's been made more difficult because it's so fragmented," said richard absalom, an analyst at telecoms consultancy ovum. "it's not just that that people are still running old versions of the software, but that samsung and other vendors are forking the os in different ways." google itself has taken steps to address the problem. earlier this month it banned apps from its play store that make changes to a device without the owner's knowledge or consent. but one expert suggested the firm had still not gone far enough. "new variants of android  malware  are found every day, with most designed to steal money from users by signing them up for expensive premium rate sms scams," independent security analyst graham cluley told the bbc. "much of the android  malware  has disguised itself as fake versions of popular apps like angry birds or instagram, and although its normally encountered in unofficial app stores they have also managed to intrude into google's official play store on a worrying number of occasions." samsung began offering its knox product to selected galaxy s4 handsets in may and has promised it would be extended to other devices. the pentagon is among organisations to have authorised the use of handsets which include the feature. "this approval enables other government agencies and regulated industries such as healthcare and financial services to adopt samsung galaxy smartphones and tablets," the south korean firm said at the time. ovum suggested the latest announcement would help give the company an edge over other android manufacturers such as sony, htc and lg. "what samsung is doing here is seeing a gap in the market," said mr absalom. "blackberry's share within enterprise is dropping and windows phone isn't picking up as fast as microsoft might have hoped.  "samsung is the biggest individual smartphone manufacturer out there and it thinks it can now make a major play in the corporate market." a service accused of helping distribute child abuse images on a hidden part of the internet has been compromised. sites using service provider freedom hosting to deliver their material have had code added to their pages, which could be used to reveal the identities of people visiting them. freedom hosting delivered sites via tor, a network designed to keep net activity anonymous. the news has led some to claim that tor no longer offers a "safe option". "this challenges the assumption people have made that tor is a simple way of maintaining your anonymity online," alan woodward, chief technology officer at security advisors charteris, told the bbc. "the bottom line is that is not guaranteed even if you think you are taking the right steps to hide your identity. this is the first time we've seen somebody looking to unmask people rather than just security researchers discussing the possibility." mr woodward added that the way the added code had been designed suggested a us law enforcement agency was behind the breach. tor users expressed mixed feelings about the news. "this exploit targets kiddie porn viewers only. if that's not you, you have nothing to worry about," suggested one. an "exploit" refers to software that makes programs, websites and other code do something they were not originally designed to do. but another said: "this week it's child porn, next week it may be a whistle-blower or an activist." news of the action was confirmed by an administrator of the tor project on its blog.  it said that over the weekend people had contacted it to say that a large number of sites using tor, which were hidden from other net users, had gone offline simultaneously. "the current news indicates that someone has exploited the software behind freedom hosting," it said. "from what is known so far, the breach was used to configure the server in a way that it injects some sort of javascript exploit in the web pages delivered to users. this exploit is used to load a  malware  payload to infect users' computers." freedom hosting was previously targeted by the anonymous hacktivist collective, whose members temporarily forced it offline in 2011 after claiming it was the largest host of material showing child abuse on tor. the daily dot news site reports that paedophiles continued to use the hosting service and have been warning each other of the breach since the news emerged. they also told each other to stop using tormail, a service used to allow people to send and receive email anonymously, which used freedom hosting's servers. freedom hosting also provided access to hackbb, a hacking-themed discussion forum, and the cleaned hidden wiki, an encyclopaedia of tor and other dark nets. the hosting service's terms and conditions had stated that illegal activities were not allowed on the sites it supported, but added that it was "not responsible" for its users' actions. tor's developers have stressed that "the person, or persons, who run freedom hosting are in no way affiliated or connected to the tor project". analysis of the javascript exploit suggests that it takes advantage of a vulnerability in firefox 17, which meant that people using that version of mozilla's browser could be identified, despite the protections built into tor. "it appears to connect the machine using the compromised browser to an address which appears to originate from reston, virginia, us, and sends the hostname and mac [media access control] address of the machine," mr woodward said. "unlike ip [internet protocol] addresses, media access control addresses are considered unique to a particular piece of hardware, although they can be spoofed under certain circumstances. "it seems unlikely that the  malware  was written by criminals as the information it is sending back to its masters is of little use to anyone other than law enforcement agencies who are trying to track down machines that are using the tor network to remain anonymous." news of the breach came shortly after the irish times reported that a 28-year-old dublin-based man had been arrested and accused by the fbi of being "the largest facilitator of child porn on the planet". it said that eric eoin marques faces allegations that he had aided and abetted a conspiracy to advertise material showing the abuse of prepubescent children. the paper reported that the us authorities are seeking his extradition on four charges.  it said the judge in the case ruled that while mr marques was entitled to the presumption of innocence, he should remain in custody pending a further hearing because he posed a flight risk. a spokesman for the fbi told the bbc: "an individual has been arrested in ireland as part of an ongoing criminal investigation in the united states. because this is matter is ongoing, longstanding department of justice policy prohibits us from discussing this matter further." hackers who wiped tens of thousands of pc hard drives in south korea earlier this year also appear to be targeting the country's military secrets, according to a report. a study by mcafee labs said the group has created  malware  which scanned systems for keywords including "weapon", "us army" and "secret". it said that once a computer's contents had been catalogued, the attackers could "grab documents at will". south korea has played down the threat. its defence ministry told the associated press news agency that it was technically impossible to have lost classified reports because the computers on which it stored military secrets were not connected to the net. a spokesman for the pentagon said it planned to review the report. mcafee said the attacks were part of a long-term spying operation dating back to at least 2009 which it called operation troy because the name of the ancient city repeatedly appeared in the hackers' code. it began investigating the group following an attack in march which caused data held on pcs used by several banks and tv networks to be deleted. although the security firm said that the  malware  used to wipe the disks was distinct from that used to hunt for the military secrets, it said there were so many similarities between the two that it believed they must be created by the same team. it traced the spying effort back to at least 2009 when it said the hackers managed to place an exploit on a military social networking site. it added that it believed the code was also spread through the use of "spear  phishing " - email or other messages masquerading as official communications which were designed to fool specific individuals into handing over logins and other sensitive information. the report said that once the  malware  was in place it searched the infected systems for "interesting" documents.  to do this it scanned for a variety of korean and english-language keywords.  the study lists dozens of examples including "tactics", "brigade", "logistics" and "operation key resolve" - a military exercise involving both south korean and us forces carried out every year. mcafee said it had opted to withhold other "sensitive" terms at the request of us officials. the report explained the software then flagged which computers appeared to have the most valuable contents and uploaded copies of their directories to the attackers' servers. it said the hackers were then able to pick and choose which files to download in order to keep network traffic to a minimum, helping them avoid detection.  mcafee also warned that it had discovered a version of the spying  malware  which had the ability to destroy data in a way similar to the one used against the civilian targets. "this capability could be devastating if military networks were to suddenly be wiped after an adversary had gathered intelligence," it said. "there was at least one limitation, however. we found the  malware  of february 2011 could wipe its targets only if it was detected that it was being debugged or analysed by a security product." a spokesman for south korea's government denied classified documents would have been at risk since the computer network that stored them was not connected to the net. "it's physically separated," said kim min-seok. however, one of the report's authors suggested there was still a risk. "it is not entirely impossible to extract information from a closed network that is disconnected from the internet," said senior threat researcher ryan sherstobitoff. "[but] it would require some extensive planning and understanding of the internal layout to stage such an exfiltration [unauthorised data transfer] to the external world." the report does not name who mcafee believes to be responsible, however south korean officials have previously said that the 20 march attack "resembled north korea's past hacking patterns". the creators of the flame  malware  have sent a "suicide" command that removes it from some infected computers. security firm symantec caught the command using booby-trapped computers set up to watch flame's actions. flame came to light after the un's telecoms body asked for help with identifying a computer-virus  found stealing data from many pcs in the middle east. new analysis of flame reveals how sophisticated the program is and gives hints about who created it. like many other security firms symantec has kept an eye on flame using so-called "honeypot" computers that report what happens when they are infected with a malicious program. described as a very sophisticated cyber-attack, flame targeted countries such as iran and israel and sought to steal large amounts of sensitive data. earlier this week symantec noticed that some flame command and control (c&c) computers sent an urgent command to the infected pcs they were overseeing. flame's creators do not have access to all their c&c computers as security firms have won control of some of them. the "suicide" command was "designed to completely remove flame from the compromised computer", said symantec. the command located every flame file sitting on a pc, removed it and then overwrote memory locations with gibberish to thwart forensic examination. "it tries to leave no traces of the infection behind,"  
          
 
          wrote the firm on its blog. analysis of the clean-up routine suggested it was written in early may, said symantec.  at the same time, analysis of the inner workings of flame reveal just how sophisticated it is. according to cryptographic experts, flame is the first malicious program to use an obscure cryptographic technique known as "prefix collision attack". this allowed the computer-virus  to fake digital credentials that had helped it to spread. the exact method of carrying out such an attack was only demonstrated in 2008 and the creators of flame came up with their own variant. "the design of this new variant required world-class cryptanalysis," said cryptoexpert marc stevens from the centrum wiskunde & informatica (cwi) in amsterdam  
          
 
          in a statement
.
         the finding gives support to claims that flame must have been built by a nation state rather than cybercriminals because of the amount of time, effort and resources that must have been put into its creation. it is not yet clear which nation created the program. a  computer-virus  that can add fake tumours to medical scan images has been created by cyber-security researchers. in laboratory tests, the  malware  altered 70 images and managed to fool three radiologists into believing patients had cancer. the altered images also managed to trick automated screening systems. the team from israel developed the  malware  to show how easy it is to get around security protections for diagnostic equipment. the program was able to convincingly add fake malignant growths to images of lungs taken by mri and ct scanning machines. glossary:  malware , patches and wormscould hackers 'brainjack' your memories in future? the researchers, from ben gurion university's cyber-security centre, said the  malware  could also remove actual malignant growths from image files to prevent patients who are targets getting the care they need.  the images targeted were scans of lungs but the  malware  could be tuned to produce other fake conditions such as brain tumours, blood clots, fractures or spinal problems, according to the washington post,  which first reported on the research. images and scans were vulnerable, said the researchers, because the files were generally not digitally signed or  encryption . this means any changes would be hard to spot. the researchers suggested the security flaws could be exploited to sow doubt about the health of government figures, sabotage research, commit insurance fraud or as part of a terrorist attack. in addition, they said, weaknesses in the way hospitals and health care centres protect their networks could give attackers easy access. while hospitals were careful about sharing sensitive data beyond their boundaries, they took much less care when handling data internally, said one of the researchers. "what happens within the hospital system itself, which no regular person should have access to in general, they tend to be pretty lenient about," yisroel mirsky told the washington post. better use of  encryption  and digital signatures could help hospitals avoid problems if cyber-attackers tried to subvert images, he added. hospitals and other healthcare organisations have been a popular target for cyber-attackers and many have been hit by malicious  ransomware  that  encryption  files and only returns the data when victims pay up. the nhs was hit hard in 2017 by the  ransomware   ransomware  which left many hospitals scrambling to recover data. the long-running and undeclared shadow war between two of the middle east's most implacable foes, iran and israel, appears to be heating up.  iran has blamed israel for a mysterious explosion at the weekend that knocked out power at its uranium enrichment facility at natanz.  israel has not publicly said it was behind what iran calls "an act of sabotage" but us and israeli media reports are quoting officials as saying it was carried out by israel's overseas intelligence agency, mossad. iran has vowed to take revenge "at a time of its choosing".  this is not an isolated incident. it follows a gradually accelerating pattern of hostile, tit-for-tat actions by both countries as they step up their covert war while being careful - so far - to avoid an all-out conflict which would be hugely destructive for both nations. so, what are the risks here and how is this likely to end? this "shadow war" can be broadly divided into three distinct fronts.   israel does not believe iran's repeated assertions that its nuclear programme is a purely peaceful civil one. israel is convinced that iran is secretly working towards developing a nuclear warhead and the means to deliver it with a ballistic missile.  speaking on monday during a visit from us defence secretary lloyd austin, israeli prime minister benyamin netanyahu said: "in the middle east there is no threat that is more serious, more dangerous, more pressing than that posed by the fanatical regime in iran." also on monday israel's ambassador to london, tzipi hotovely, told the bbc: "iran has never stopped working to develop nuclear weapons and the missiles capable of delivering them. iran's pursuit of nuclear weapons.. make it a threat to the entire world." with this belief in mind, israel has long been carrying out a series of covert, unilateral and undeclared actions to try to slow down or cripple iran's nuclear programme. these include the insertion of a  computer-virus  codenamed stuxnet, first discovered in 2010, that incapacitated iran's centrifuges. earlier this century a number of key iranian nuclear scientists died in mysterious circumstances and then in november 2020 there was the high-profile assassination near tehran of mohsen fakhrizadeh. he was not only iran's leading nuclear technical expert but he carried a senior rank in the islamic revolutionary guards corps (irgc) and israel believed he was the person running the covert "military" aspect of iran's nuclear programme. that programme is now at a potentially dangerous stage.  in 2015 iran signed up to a multinational nuclear pact called the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) which lifted sanctions in exchange for stringent nuclear inspections. but in 2018 president donald trump pulled the us out of it, slapping draconian sanctions on iran, which has responded by incrementally breaking the terms of the deal, most notably enriching uranium - the chemical element that can be used for nuclear energy or, potentially, weapons - beyond the permitted limits. president joe biden wants to bring the us back into the deal but only if iran returns to full compliance. iran is basically saying: "no, we don't trust you, you go first. we will comply fully once sanctions are lifted."  to try to break this deadlock, negotiators from several countries are meeting in vienna. but israel doesn't believe the nuclear deal is worth reviving in its current form. dr michael stephens, a middle east analyst with the london thinktank royal united services institute (rusi), says recent israeli actions are a deliberate attempt to sabotage the nuclear negotiations.  "the israelis are unilaterally trying to derail the iranian nuclear programme, in a way which, while impressive in terms of technical capacity, is a risky game. first, these israeli efforts could undermine the us negotiating position as it seeks to re-enter the nuclear deal with iran.  "but secondly the iranians may look to counter, through asymmetric attacks against israeli interests worldwide. israel has proved it can disrupt the iranian programme, but at what cost?" strange things have been happening at sea recently. earlier this year an israeli-owned cargo ship, the mv helios, was badly damaged while transiting the gulf of oman. two large holes were ripped in its hull and israel swiftly blamed iran's irgc.  iran denied any involvement.  in april the saviz, an iranian vessel anchored in the southern red sea, suffered damage to its hull believed to have been caused by limpet mines. israel and the saudi-led coalition in nearby yemen believe the saviz has been serving as a logistic "mothership" for iran's houthi allies in yemen. speedboats, machine-guns and sophisticated communication aerials have been spotted onboard but iran says it is there for peaceful, legitimate purposes and blames israel for the attack.  us media reports say that over the past 18 months israeli forces have targeted at least 12 ships bound for syria, carrying iranian oil and military supplies. the fact that syria has been at war within its own borders for the past 10 years has tended to divert attention away from israeli military actions there. the civil war opened the way for a huge influx of iranian military "advisers" from the irgc, working in concert with iran's lebanese allies, hezbollah, to support the regime of syrian president bashar al-assad. in some cases these irgc forces have ventured within a short distance of the boundary with the israeli-occupied golan heights.  israel has been particularly alarmed at iran's supply of precision-guided rockets and missiles to its proxies within striking distance of israeli cities and it has carried out numerous air strikes against these missile bases and supply lines in syria, with little perceptible response from iran so far. the underlying theme of this shadow war is brinkmanship. neither side can afford to look weak but both iran and israel know they need to carefully calibrate their actions so as not to trigger an all-out war. on the nuclear side it is clear that israeli intelligence has been able to penetrate iranian security to an astounding degree, deploying both human agents on the ground and cyber weapons to overcome iranian countermeasures.  on the maritime shipping side, israel is at something of a geographical disadvantage. it has good access to the red sea through its own naval port at eilat but further afield iran has the upper hand, thanks to its long gulf coastline and houthi proxies in yemen. in syria and lebanon there is always the option for iran to deploy its proxies to launch missile strikes against israel but this is extremely risky. israel has made it clear the magnitude of its response and where it would land: in iran.  john raine, an expert on transnational terrorism with the international institute for strategic studies (iiss) says israel's superior intelligence capabilities mean iran has to content itself with "blunt" responses through its proxies.  "frustratingly for iran, its best partner for striking israel is hezbollah but that would be an escalatory move which could embroil hezbollah  in the war iran wants to avoid. the iranians usually have the asymmetric advantage but with israel they are being outboxed. the israelis have both a longer reach, faster footwork and when they decide to strike bluntly, as they have been doing in syria, they hit harder." the iranian foreign minister has said his country will "take revenge" for an attack on an underground nuclear site, for which it has blamed israel. iranian officials said the natanz uranium enrichment plant was the target of "nuclear terrorism" on sunday, after initially reporting a power failure. new advanced centrifuges to enrich uranium had just been activated there. israel has not commented, but public radio cited intelligence sources as saying it was a mossad cyber operation. they said it had caused more extensive damage than iran had reported.  us intelligence officials told the new york times that a large explosion had completely destroyed the independent internal power system that supplied the centrifuges inside the underground facility. they estimated it could take at least nine months to resume enrichment there. iran's nour news agency, which is affiliated to the supreme national security council, cited an intelligence ministry source as saying the "main perpetrator" had been identified and an operation was under way to arrest them.  israel has recently stepped up its warnings about its arch-foe's nuclear programme amid efforts to revive a 2015 nuclear deal that was abandoned by former us president donald trump.  his successor, joe biden, has said he wants to return to the landmark accord. but iran and the five other world powers still party to it - china, france, germany, russia and the uk - need to find a way for him to lift us sanctions and for iran to return to the agreed limits on its nuclear programme. how was the attack carried out? why iran's nuclear facilities are still vulnerable to attackwhy do the limits on uranium enrichment matter?iran's nuclear crisis in 300 words us and iranian officials are holding indirect talks in the austrian capital, vienna, to try to break the impasse, with european officials acting as intermediaries. the european union said it still needed to clarify the facts about the natanz incident, but that it rejected "any attempts to undermine or weaken diplomatic efforts on the nuclear agreement". us defence secretary lloyd austin, who is visiting israel, said he was aware of the reports about natanz and that the biden administration's diplomatic efforts to re-engage with iran diplomatically would continue.  world powers don't trust iran: some countries believe iran wants nuclear power because it wants to build a nuclear bomb - it denies this. so a deal was struck: in 2015, iran and six other countries reached a major agreement. iran would stop some nuclear work in return for an end to harsh penalties, or sanctions, hurting its economy. what is the problem now? iran re-started banned nuclear work after former us president donald trump pulled out of the deal and re-imposed sanctions on iran. even though new leader joe biden wants to rejoin, both sides say the other must make the first move. "the zionists want to take revenge because of our progress in the way to lift sanctions," iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif was quoted by state media as saying on monday. "they have publicly said that they will not allow this. but we will take our revenge from the zionists." iran does not recognise israel's right to exist and often refers to it as the "zionist state". foreign ministry spokesman saeed khatibzadeh later told a news conference in the capital, tehran, that israel was "of course" behind the attack on natanz. "this incident, fortunately, did not cause any damage to human lives or the environment. however, it could have been a catastrophe. this is a crime against humanity and carrying out such actions is in line with the essence of the zionist regime," he said. mr khatibzadeh said only the least efficient "ir-1" centrifuges were damaged in the incident, and that they would be replaced with advanced ones. israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu did not mention the incident at a later joint news conference with the us defence secretary.  but he stated: "my policy... is clear: i will never allow iran to obtain the nuclear capability to carry out its genocidal goal of eliminating israel. and israel will continue to defend itself against iran's aggression and terrorism." the undeclared "near war" between iran and israel is heating up.  the latest damage done to iran's nuclear programme, for which iran has vowed to take revenge, follows a series of tit-for-tat actions around the middle east.  there have been mysterious explosions on ships' hulls, blamed variously on both countries, and most significantly last november, there was the assassination in broad daylight near tehran of mohsen fakhrizadeh, the man suspected of leading iran's military nuclear programme. the israeli air force has also carried out numerous air strikes against missile bases in syria and other sites where iranian advisers have been providing assistance to units of hezbollah, the shia islamist militant group.  israel sees iran's nuclear programme as a potential threat to its existence and is determined to delay or stop it. it does not see any point in current efforts to revive the iran nuclear deal, believing it to be ineffective.  the attack on natanz is likely to strengthen the hand of iran's hardliners and complicate any future negotiations.  enriched uranium is produced by feeding uranium hexafluoride gas into centrifuges to separate out the most suitable isotope for nuclear fission, called u-235. the nuclear deal only allows iran to use ir-1 centrifuges to produce limited quantities of uranium enriched up to 3.67% concentration, which can be used to produce fuel for commercial nuclear power plants. uranium that is enriched to 90% or more can be used to make nuclear weapons. iran, which insists it does not want nuclear weapons, has retaliated against the sanctions reinstated by the trump administration by rolling back key commitments under the accord. these have included operating advanced centrifuges, resuming enrichment to 20% concentration, and building a stockpile of that material. on saturday, when iran marked national nuclear technology day, president hassan rouhani inaugurated a cascade (or cluster) of 164 advanced ir-6 centrifuges at natanz. he also launched tests on new ir-9 centrifuges, which officials said could enrich uranium 50 times faster than the ir-1. this is not the first time that natanz has been the target of sabotage. last july, an above-ground centrifuge assembly plant was badly damaged by what iranian officials said was a fire. in response, iran began building a new structure underneath nearby mountains. enrichment at the plant was previously disrupted by the stuxnet  computer-virus , widely believed to have been created by the us and israel. the computer-virus , which was discovered in 2010, changed the speeds at which the centrifuges spun and reportedly ruined almost 1,000 of them. iran also accused israel of being behind the assassination of its top nuclear scientist, mohsen fakhrizadeh, last november. israel neither confirmed nor denied any involvement. and in recent months the countries have accused each other of being behind explosions that have damaged israeli and iranian commercial vessels. 11 april : iran's natanz uranium enrichment plant reportedly seriously damaged in sabotage attack; iran blames israel 6 april: iranian cargo ship saviz, allegedly used for spying, damaged by blast in red sea off coast of eritrea; new york times says israel informed us that it carried out attack 25 march: israeli cargo ship lori hit by missile in arabian sea; israeli security officials say iran suspected 10 march: iranian cargo ship shahr-e kord hit by blast in mediterranean sea; iranian media say israel to blame 26 february: israeli vehicle carrier mv helios ray hit by explosion in gulf of oman; israel blames iran 27 november 2020: iranian nuclear scientist mohsen fakhrizadeh assassinated, reportedly by satellite-controlled machine gun, outside tehran; iran accuses israel 2 july 2020: natanz centrifuge assembly plant hit by blasts, reportedly causing extensive damage; iran blames sabotage june-july 2020: series of mysterious fires and explosions hit industrial, power, medical and nuclear sites across iran; western intelligence sources say israel suspected of involvement 9 may 2020: israel reportedly behind cyber-attack on shahid rajaee port in iran 24 april 2020: israel accuses iran of cyber-attack on water pumping station kwik fit has confirmed that its computer network has been infected with  malware , disrupting its ability to book in vehicle repairs and handle other customer requests. the car service specialist began telling customers that its it systems had gone offline on saturday, but initially indicated the issue had been rectified the same day. it has since told the bbc that it is still experiencing some problems. however, it declined to elaborate. "we first experienced some issues with a computer-virus  in our it network during the weekend," said a spokeswoman. "this affected a number of our systems but in the interest of ongoing security we can't confirm the source of the problem.  "we have been working to get our operational systems back up and running normally and while there is still some disruption, our centres are open as usual." several customers have sent messages to the firm via social media to express frustration. the company declined to discuss what the motivation for the attack might be, but said that it did not believe its customers' records had been affected. "we can reassure customers that we do not store any of their financial information and currently have no reason to believe that any customer data was compromised," said a spokeswoman. "for security reasons we are not able to say anything else."  the national records of scotland genealogy service has been closed until further notice due to a  computer-virus . the public search rooms, at new register house in edinburgh, were shut on wednesday 23 march  it followed the discovery of " ransomware " in an admin file. a spokeswoman said the computer-virus , which can restrict access to files and then demand payment for them to be released, was caught before it could do any damage. cyber security is now being checked. copies of birth and other certificates are still available and neither the registration service nor the scotland's people website are affected. the closure affects public access to photographs of birth records less than 100 years old, marriage records less than 75 years old, and death records less than 50 years old, which can only be viewed in person at the office and not online. the service is normally used by people looking to research their family tree. anne slater, speaking on behalf of the national records of scotland, said: "the service has been closed since last wednesday.  "it's a  ransomware  computer-virus . it comes in and tries to lock up your files and then you have to give them money.  "it was noticed in a file. i believe it was a spreadsheet - an administration file. " ms slater said that it was thought the computer-virus  first got into the file after it was embedded in a website which been clicked on. she said was spotted before it could cause any damage. she added it was contained the same day and the reason for the current closure was because of rigorous safety checks.  she said: "it's a belt and braces approach. we're checking all our back-end network. " asked if she knew when the service would re-open, she said: "right now, no. we're looking to open it as soon as possible." a spokeswoman for fraser and fraser, the firm which features in bbc one series heir hunters, said one of their researchers was told about the issue when they arrived to do a routine check. she said: "for us these records are crucial for our research, so we can confirm that the correct family members and/or beneficiaries are located and receive their entitlement from the unclaimed estates. "our concern is how long will they be gone for?" routine operations and outpatient appointments could be suspended for five days because a computer-virus  caused the computer network to crash.  hundreds of people are affected by the attack on northern lincolnshire and goole (nlag) nhs foundation trust and united lincolnshire hospitals trust.  about 20 operations have been cancelled at lincoln county and 15 at pilgrim hospital in boston. nlag said contingency plans were in place to maintain emergency services. more on this story and others on bbc local live: lincolnshire the antenatal department is running as normal, as are chemotherapy, audiology, paediatrics, gynaecology, community and therapy and laboratory services. a limited number of endoscopy procedures at nlag will also go ahead. nlag runs hospitals in goole, grimsby and scunthorpe, and its computer system is linked to that at united lincolnshire hospitals trust (ulht). the trust's deputy chief executive karen dunderdale said it was working under major incident status following sunday's cyber attack. she said that the named departments were the only ones functioning as normal:  "patients who have appointments in all other departments should assume their appointment/procedure is cancelled unless they receive a telephone call to say otherwise." a statement on the ulht website said "our a&es are open, but we urge everyone to think twice before they go to a&e - if it's not serious or life threatening, you shouldn't be there." the medical director at nlag, laurence roberts, said it was possible to get access to patient information on the computer system, but it was very slow. "we can get at that material but it does mean having to access it at very central points in the organisation and then either print it out and walk it around or people have to walk around the building to access it."  ransomware  is the fastest growing form of computer  malware , experts warn. it's a malicious computer-virus  that locks the user out of their computer and demands a fee to return their files. a report published by the australian government claims 72% of businesses surveyed experienced  ransomware  incidents in 2015. the figure was just 17% in 2013 . it's also a growing threat for mobile devices as it can be hidden in an app, says gert-jan schenk, vice-president at internet security company lookout. "for the most part, we've seen  ransomware  delivered through drive-by downloads - it pretends to be a popular app, increasing the chances that you'll click on it," he explains. "to avoid these threats, users should be very careful about what apps they install, and where they come from - read the reviews on google play, and avoid side-loading from untrusted sources." like most  computer-virus es,  ransomware  often arrives in the form of a  phishing  email, or spam, or a fake software update - and the recipient clicks a link or opens an attachment. the computer-virus  then sets to work  encryption  the user's files. once the computer is effectively locked down, it demands a fee - often in bitcoins because it is less easy to trace - for the return of the files. the fee is generally one or two bitcoins - the equivalent of about $500 (£330). it is less common now, but in the earlier days of the  malware  - about five years ago - the ransom note could take the form of a law enforcement notice. the user was directed to a web page that appeared to be from, for example, the fbi, falsely claiming illegal images of children had been been found on the machine and a fine was payable. there is generally a time limit to comply, after which the ransom increases. sometimes it is just a threat, but mostly the computer-virus  really does encryption files. the only way to retrieve your files without paying the ransom is to go to a backed-up version. neil douglas, from edinburgh-based it company network roi, has just helped a small business client whose server was hit by  ransomware . "we had to recover everything from back-up. we'd had a back-up two minutes before the infection, so the timing couldn't have been any better - but it did result in quite a bit of downtime," he says. "you could risk paying them - but it's a bit like paying  a blackmailer. we would only recommend it as a last resort. "you don't know whether they'll come back for more, you don't know that they'll clear the infection." cybersecurity expert prof alan woodward says paying also leaves you vulnerable to further cybercrime. "as soon as you pay up, you get on a suckers' list and you'll probably get contacted again," he says. "it's low-hanging fruit for the criminals." while all the expert advice is, of course, not to pay, plenty of people do - even those you would least expect to. tewksbury police, in the us, admitted they had paid up when their main server had been attacked and locked down at the end of last year. "nobody wants to negotiate with terrorists. nobody wants to pay terrorists," police chief timothy sheehan told the town's local paper. "we did everything we possibly could. "it was an eye-opening experience, i can tell you right now. it made you feel that you lost control of everything. "paying the bitcoin ransom was the last resort."  ransomware  is lucrative for criminals because so many victims pay rather than face the shame of false accusations - or like the police department, they just desperately need their files. "some companies have set up bitcoin accounts in case it happens to them," says prof woodward. "i would recommend that nobody ever pays up. "the only way to deal with it is to be sure you have a computer-virus  checker and back up." "it tends to be organised crime," says prof woodward. "they do make millions out of it. it's opportunistic... they just try it on everybody. you keep third parties out of it - the bank isn't involved." recent research by palo alto networks and industry partners suggested one family of  ransomware  known as crypto wall had generated about $325m (£215m) for the gang behind it.  "in the volume cybercrime space,  ransomware  is one of the most prolific problems we face," greg day, chief security officer for europe at palo alto networks, told the bbc last month. "credit card theft is getting to the point where the value of each card is very low.  as a result,  ransomware  has stepped into that gap and gives a higher value for each victim." a number of operations have been postponed at royal berkshire hospital due to a  computer-virus .  pathology, eye and audiology services have been affected by the bug which originated in an email attachment.  mary sherry, chief operating officer for royal berkshire nhs foundation trust, said a number of outpatient appointments also had to be rescheduled.  the trust said the computer-virus  has not affected patients' data. according to the trust, priority has been given to patients who have the most urgent need or who are ready for discharge pending pathology results. ms sherry added: "at the same time, the trust's services remain under pressure because of the volume of patients needing emergency care and the demand for our services and for beds remains high. "the trust has locked down its network to protect it from any further intervention and informed the relevant authorities. "teams are working around the clock to resolve this issue and continue to protect the trust's network." the computer-virus  is believed to be a variant of a known xp bug designed to disrupt services.  a russian hacking group is launching  ransomware  attacks against a number of us companies, targeting employees who are working from home due to covid-19. evil corp hackers have tried to access at least 31 organisations' networks in order to cripple systems and demand millions of dollars in ransom. the group's two alleged leaders were indicted by the us justice department in december 2019. there are concerns that us voting systems could also be targeted. last year, us authorities filed charges against evil corp's alleged leaders maksim yakubets and igor turashev, accusing them of using  malware  to steal millions of dollars from groups including schools and religious organisations in over 40 countries. officials announced a $5m reward for information leading to their arrest, which they said was the largest amount ever offered for a cyber criminal. both men are still at large.  the threat comes as the majority of americans have been working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic -  62% according to a gallup poll. the us presidential election is also just months away, and federal and local officials have been working to put measures in place to protect voter records as well as manage safe voting practices amid the pandemic. symantec corporation, a firm that monitors corporate and government networks released a notice warning of the threat it identified on thursday night. the attacks used what symantec described as a relatively new type of  ransomware  called wastedlocker, which has been attributed to evil corp.  ransomware  are  computer-virus es that threaten to delete files unless the ransom is paid. the wastedlocker  ransomware  computer-virus  demands ransoms of $500,000 to $1m to unlock computer files it seizes.  symantec said the "vast majority of targets are major corporations, including many household names", and eight targets were fortune 500 companies. all are us-owned but one, which is a us-based subsidiary. most targeted companies were in the manufacturing, information technology and media sectors.  symantec said the hackers had breached the networks of these companies and were "laying the groundwork" for future  ransomware  attacks that would let them block access to data and demand millions of dollars. symantec technical director eric chien told the new york times the hackers take advantage of employees now using virtual private networks (vpns) to access work systems. they use vpns to identify which company a user works for, and then infect the user's computer when they visit a public or commercial site. when the user next connects to their employer's system, the hackers can attack. there have been a number of recent cyber-attacks on local governments across the us. cities and towns in louisiana, oregon, maryland, georgia, texas and florida were hit by  ransomware  attacks last year.  the department of homeland security is looking into safeguarding voter registration databases ahead of november 3's general election. in february, the agency's head of cyber-security said this was a key election security concern. these attacks by foreign cyber-criminals are far from a new threat. during the impeachment inquiry last year, former white house security adviser and russia expert fiona hill testified that "russia's security services and their proxies have geared up to repeat their interference in the 2020 election". in 2018, the justice department charged 12 russian intelligence officers with hacking democratic officials in the 2016 us elections, using spear  phishing  emails and  malware .  the hackers also stole data on half a million voters from a state election board site. moscow has said there is no evidence linking the 12 to military intelligence or hacking. thousands of office printers around the world have been spewing out page after page of gibberish because of a  computer-virus . reports from companies reveal that thousands of pages of paper were wasted when the windows computer-virus  hit their pcs. security firms said the worst hit were large businesses in the us, india, europe, and south america. the culprit is a malicious program called milicenso that has been re-used many times by hi-tech crime groups. in a blogpost analysing the computer-virus , security firm symantec
 said milicenso was first seen in 2010 and because it was a " malware  delivery vehicle for hire" had turned up regularly ever since. 
         its most recent incarnation was as a tool for distributing french language  spyware . symantec said milicenso could infect a pc by various routes, such as an email attachment, via a compromised website or by posing as a fake video decoder. once installed, the computer-virus  polls a location on the net and re-directs web traffic so it serves up adverts. symantec said one side effect of infection was to generate a file in a pc's printer queue. this turns the contents of the files in the computer-virus 's main directory into print jobs. "the garbled printouts appear to be a side effect of the infection vector rather an intentional goal of the author," said symantec.  victims hit by the computer-virus  have reported its effects via discussion forums run by security firms.  
          
 
          in the worst cases, hundreds of printers
 have been generating gibberish and wasting reams of paper.
         security firms have now issued updates that should spot milicenso and clean up any infections. disruption that paralysed the computer networks of broadcasters and banks in south korea appears to have been caused by a computer-virus , an official close to the investigation has told the bbc. the official said it was believed a "malicious" code was to blame for the system failure. he said investigators were trying to identify and analyse the computer-virus . last week, north korea accused the us and its allies of attacks on its internet servers. in the latest incident, two south korean banks, shinhan bank and nonghyup, and three tv stations kbs, mbs and ytn, all reported that their networks had suddenly shut down on wednesday afternoon. the bbc's lucy williamson in seoul says that, for one of the world's most networked populations, south korea has had more than its share of cyber attacks.  north korea has been blamed for several breaches over the past few years, she says. initially, south korea's communications commission suspected a cyber-attack. however, the bbc was later told that experts had concluded it was not a  dos-attack  attack, of the kind south korea has experienced in the past.  staff at the three broadcasters said their computers crashed and could not be restarted, with screens simply displaying an error message, although they have continued to make television broadcasts, our correspondent said.  there were also reports of skulls popping up on some computer screens, which could indicate that hackers had installed malicious code in the networks, the korean internet security agency said.  some services at shinhan bank, including internet banking and atm machines, were also affected, although operations now appear to have been restored. in the immediate aftermath of the incident, south korean internet service provider lg uplus said it believed its network had been hacked, reuters news agency reported. an official from the presidential office told yonhap news agency it was not yet known whether north korea was involved. "we do not rule out the possibility of north korea being involved, but it's premature to say so," defence ministry spokesman kim min-seok said. hackers can cover their tracks by launching their attacks indirectly by hijacking other people's computer systems, says the bbc's technology correspondent mark gregory.  tracing an attack to its original source can be complex in the extreme, he adds.  however, in some highly sophisticated attacks, hackers' precise methods have provided clues to their identity.  slight variations in method have acted as a kind of digital signature, to help investigators trace who they are, our correspondent says. no government-related computer networks were affected, an official from the national computing and information agency (ncia) told yonhap.   the military has upgraded its information surveillance status by one level, yonhap said. north korea is believed to have been behind two major cyber attacks on the south, in 2009 and 2011, that targeted government agencies and financial firms. nonghyup bank was one of the victims of the 2011 attack, which left its customers unable to access or transfer their cash for three days. north korea has stepped up rhetoric in recent days in response to fresh un sanctions over its nuclear test in february and joint annual military drills between the us and south korea, which it bitterly opposes. on 15 march, north korea's kcna news agency accused the us and its allies of "intensive and persistent" hacking attacks on its networks. official sites such as kcna, air koryo and rodong sinmun, the party newspaper, were reportedly inaccessible for short periods.  computer systems at energy firm rasgas have been taken offline by a  computer-virus  only days after a similar attack on oil giant aramco. the attacks come as security experts warn of efforts by malicious hackers to target the oil and energy industry. the attack forced the qatar-based rasgas firm to shut down its website and email systems.  rasgas, one of the world's largest producers of liquid petroleum gas, said production was not hit by the attack. the company said it spotted the "unknown computer-virus " earlier this week and took desktop computers, email and web servers offline as it cleaned up. the report comes only days after saudi arabia's aramco revealed it had completed a clean-up operation after a computer-virus  knocked out 30,000 of its computers. the cyber- assault on aramco also only hit desktop computers rather than operational plant and machinery.  both attacks come in the wake of alerts issued by security firms about a computer-virus  called "shamoon" or "disstrack" that specifically targets companies in the oil and energy sectors. unlike many other contemporary computer-virus es shamoon/disstrack does not attempt to steal data but instead tries to delete it irrecoverably. the computer-virus  spreads around internal computer networks by exploiting shared hard drives. neither rasgas nor aramco has released details of which computer-virus  penetrated its networks.  the vast majority of  computer-virus es are designed to help cyber-thieves steal credit card numbers, online bank account credentials and other valuable digital assets such as login names and passwords. however, an increasing number of computer-virus es are customised to take aim at specific industries, nations or companies.  the best known of these computer-virus es is the stuxnet worm which was written to disable equipment used in iran's nuclear enrichment efforts. german federal police are warning about a  computer-virus  that accuses victims of viewing "juvenile pornography". it also displays an image that it claims reveals images of child sexual abuse have been viewed on a computer.  the windows computer-virus  locks a computer and only returns control to its owner on payment of a 100 euro (£86) fine. it purports to be collecting cash on behalf of german copyright authorities and the country's national computer security agency. the computer-virus  amounted to "digital extortion" and victims should not pay up, said german police. the warning about the novel strain of  ransomware  was issued by germany's federal criminal police office (the bundeskriminalamt or bka).  the  ransomware  version found by the bka uses a pop-up window that says the machine has been locked down due to "unauthorised network activity". the window is crafted to look like it has been put together by germany's federal office for information security (bki) and its society for prosecution of copyright infringement (gvu). text in the window claims that images of child sexual abuse as well as pirated content have been found on the machine. also displayed is an picture of a child which it claims reveals illegal images have been viewed. rik ferguson, director of security research at trend micro, said it was the first time he had heard of  ransomware  displaying images that users were accused of harbouring. "it seems that they are attempting to increase the pressure of this kind of emotional blackmail," he told the bbc.  germany's bka said users should not pay the fine "under any circumstances" and added that neither the bki or gvu collected cash in this way from those suspected of viewing illegal images or pirating content. instead, users should use anti-virus and other security software to clean up their pc and deal with the computer-virus . "this is a form of digital extortion," said the bka in its alert about the computer-virus .  ransomware , which tries to make victims pay an on-the-spot fine, is becoming more prevalent but most strains simply accuse people of pirating movies or music. others scramble data that is only unscrambled when a fee is paid. security firm symantec said it was seeing more and more strains of  ransomware  and said it could be "highly profitable" for its creators. it estimated that  ransomware  makers were already making about $5m (£3m) a year from such malicious code. the man behind the world's first major  computer-virus  outbreak has admitted his guilt, 20 years after his software infected millions of machines worldwide. filipino onel de guzman, now 44, says he unleashed the love bug computer worm to steal passwords so he could access the internet without paying. he claims he never intended it to spread globally. and he says he regrets the damage his code caused. "i didn't expect it would get to the us and europe. i was surprised," he said in an interview for crime dot com, a forthcoming book on cyber-crime. the love bug pandemic began on 4 may, 2000.  victims received an email attachment entitled love-letter-for-you. it contained malicious code that would overwrite files, steal passwords, and automatically send copies of itself to all contacts in the victim's microsoft outlook address book. within 24 hours, it was causing major problems across the globe, reportedly infecting 45 million machines. it also overwhelmed organisations' email systems, and some it managers disconnected parts of their infrastructure to prevent infection.  this led to estimates of damage and disruption running into billions of pounds. in the uk, parliament shut down its email network for several hours to protect itself, and even the pentagon was reportedly affected. the previous year, the melissa bug is believed to have infected a million machines using similar tactics. however, love bug dwarfed previous outbreaks and exposed how vulnerable the world's increasing internet connectivity was to attack. investigators traced the computer-virus  to an email address registered to an apartment in manila, capital of the philippines. the occupant's brother was onel de guzman, a computer science student at the city's ama computer college. he was a member of an underground hacking group called grammersoft and quickly became the lead suspect in a police investigation. de guzman's lawyer organised a press conference on 11 may, at which de guzman appeared to speak little english.  when asked whether he may have released the computer-virus  accidentally, de guzman said: "it is possible." at the time, the philippines had no law covering computer hacking, and neither de guzman nor anyone else was ever prosecuted.  suspicion also fell on de guzman's fellow student michael buen, who has been cited online as the co-author of the love bug. i set out to track down onel de guzman and resolve the 20-year mystery of love bug's origin. online rumours claimed de guzman had moved to germany, austria or the us. some claimed he had been recruited by microsoft following the outbreak. all proved to be wide of the mark. on a forum dedicated to the philippine underworld, a user claimed in 2016 that de guzman ran a mobile phone repair shop in the quiapo district of manila. in april 2019, i visited the area hoping to encounter the suspect, only to find a sprawling market containing dozens of mobile phone repair shops. i wrote onel de guzman's name on a piece of paper and showed it to shop workers at random in the hope that someone would recognise it. finally an employee said he knew of de guzman and believed he now worked in another phone repair booth at a shopping mall elsewhere in manila. after several hours wandering around the mall and showing de guzman's name, i was directed to a cramped, messy stall at the very back of the building, and after waiting several hours for him to turn up, onel de guzman arrived. he admitted having created love bug, which he said was a revamped version of an earlier computer-virus  he had coded in order to steal internet access passwords.  in the era of dial-up internet, such passwords were needed to get online, and de guzman says he could not afford to pay for one. he claims he initially sent the computer-virus  only to philippine victims, with whom he communicated in chat rooms, because he only wanted to steal internet access passwords that worked in his local area. however, in spring 2000 he tweaked the code, adding an auto-spreading feature that would send copies of the computer-virus  to victims' outlook contacts, using a flaw in microsoft's windows 95 operating system. he also created a title for the email attachment that would have global appeal, tempting people across the world to open it. "i figured out that many people want a boyfriend, they want each other, they want love, so i called it that," he said. de guzman claims he sent the computer-virus  initially to someone in singapore, and then went out drinking with a friend. the first he knew of the global chaos he had unleashed was when his mother told him police were hunting a hacker in manila. he explained that his mother hid his computer equipment. de guzman insists buen had nothing to do with love bug and that he was its sole creator. after a period of lying low, de guzman returned to computer work but did not go back to college. he now runs the small booth with another member of staff. he says he regrets writing the computer-virus , and the infamy it has brought him. "sometimes i get my picture on the internet," he said.  "my friends say, 'it's you!' i'm a shy person, i don't want this." us prosecutors say they have charged three men with creating and distributing a computer-virus  that infected more a million computers around the world. they say the gozi computer-virus  was used to access personal bank information and steal millions of dollars in 2005-11. the suspects - a russian, a latvian and a romanian -  ran a "modern-day bank robbery ring, that required neither a gun or a mask", the prosecutors say. the three men - all in their 20s - have already been arrested. nikita kuzmin, a 25-year-old russian national, pleaded guilty to the charges in may 2011, us attorney preet bharara revealed at a news conference in new york on wednesday. extradition proceedings against the other two men - romania's mihai ionut paunescu, 28, and 27-year-old deniss calovskis from latvia - are now under way. the ongoing us government investigation alleges that the scheme began in europe and later spread to the us, where at one stage more than 190 computers belonging to america's nasa space agency were infected. they say that mr kuzmin and his co-defenders - nicknamed computer-virus  and miami - have managed to produce at least $50m (£32m) in illegal profits using the computer-virus . "this case should serve as a wake-up call to banks and consumers alike because cybercrime remains one of the greatest threats we face, and it is not going away anytime soon," mr bharara said. he said that the fbi had worked with a number of european countries, including britain, in tracking down the scheme - one of the most financially destructive yet seen.   syrian anti-government activists are being targeted with malicious computer programs seeking to steal data, a digital rights group has said. the electronic frontier foundation (eff) issued a warning about a booby-trapped file posing as an add-on for net phone service skype. anyone caught out by the malicious file would give its creators remote access to their computer. the eff said the attack was the latest in a series aimed at syrian dissidents. in its warning
, the eff said the malicious program was in a message being sent to people known to be supporters of the rebels in syria.
         posing as an "important new video" the program claims to be able to encryption and protect calls made by skype.  however, the eff said anyone installing the program would be putting in place a remote-access  spyware  file designed to snoop on a victim's computer. the malicious program can log keystrokes and take screenshots. in the past, said the eff, activists have been targeted through youtube and facebook and have been subject to a variety of  phishing  attacks. analysis of the latest  spyware  led the eff to conclude that it was the work of the same group that was behind earlier attacks. in particular, it said, data gathered by the malicious program deposits it on a site controlled by the syrian government.  "for syrian activists, poor security practices can have potentially disastrous consequences," said the eff. a scam in which computer users are told their machine has a computer-virus  has prompted a warning from leicestershire police. a caller claiming to be from microsoft tells the householder they must download a programme to cure the computer-virus . the person also asks for bank details to pay a subscription to prevent further computer-virus es. police said all unsolicited offers should be treated with caution. the programme gives access to information on the machine. the force said checks had established the computers were never infected. sgt john weston said: "the callers sound very plausible and in most cases they are aware of the victim's name and address. "... we would advise anyone contacted in similar circumstances to never give out their bank details and never allow the caller access to their computer." the psni have warned computer users to be wary of scams that appear to be aimed at gaining control of their machines and their personal details. police said a number of people had reported that their computers were infected with a computer-virus  which monitored activity on the computer.  the users were telephoned by someone claiming to be from a computer company who directed them to a website where the computer-virus  installed itself on their machines. details of the computer user's online activity and personal details, including banking details, could then be accessed. a police spokesman said users should consult "a reputable dealer" for advice about protecting their pcs from computer-virus es. "a range of anti-virus software is available. some of the products are free, while some offer increased levels of protection," he said. "do not be tempted to give control of your computer to people you do not know and never give personal or financial details in response to telephone calls or emails. "if you bank online, your bank will usually have advice on its website about safety." the spokesman said if someone is unsure of the identity of a caller they should ask for a contact number or an alternative way to verify their details.  "if you still remain unsure then simply end the call and do not give any of your details." police have also warned that similar scams have been reported in various places in the republic of ireland.  when the warning message flashed up on the screen of gail fawcett's laptop, she immediately feared the worst. the pop-up suggested her three-month-old computer was at risk and directed her to update her security settings by downloading a file. moments later, the mother-of-one's phone rang and a man claiming to be from windows support told her the laptop had a computer-virus . "it was really convincing," says the 37-year-old research manager from south london. "they had my details without me giving my name and address. i asked how they knew i was online and he said they could tell when something had been downloaded. "he told me it was not performing at full speed and that it could crash at any moment. we were on the phone for an hour while he took me through various files in my hard drive." whenever ms fawcett began to doubt the caller's authenticity, he would reassure her - at one point asking his supervisor to take over. "they sounded so professional," she said. she was then directed to another website and it was explained that for a £70 annual fee, her computer could be instantly wiped clean of computer-virus es. "i was totally freaked out. i didn't hand over any money but it was the thought it could happen." after ms fawcett refused to give her credit card details, the caller finished the conversation by saying she should take time to think about it. however, afterwards, she tried a web search for the name of the website she had been directed to - and got a string of results identifying the site with a type of "rogue anti- spyware ". a friend has since checked her laptop and says initial indications are that nothing is amiss. however, ms fawcett says the experience has left her nervous of using the web, where previously she would have been happy to browse and shop online. "even having the laptop back made me anxious. it feels like other people have a window into your home." tony neate, managing director of internet advice service get safe online, said this was a typical tactic of an organised scam. "if you download some sort of  spyware  that can take over your computer, it can find registration documents from software you may have signed up for. "once they have a name, address and phone number, they can say they have been monitoring your computer." however, mr neate said a firm could only monitor a computer if they have planted a device in it which allows it to do so. to do this without permission would be illegal. and he gave the following advice: treat all pop-ups with extreme caution. even if they look official, there is no way computer-virus es could be identified by anyone without access to your computeruse a pop-up blocker. these should filter out most malicious pop-ups, while messages from your computer's real computer-virus  scanner will not be blockeddo not speak to cold callers a british scientist says he is the first man in the world to become infected with a  computer-virus . dr mark gasson from the university of reading had a chip inserted in his hand which was then infected with a computer-virus . the device, which enables him to pass through security doors and activate his mobile phone, is a sophisticated version of id chips used to tag pets. in trials, dr gasson showed that the chip was able to pass on the  computer-virus  to external control systems. if other implanted chips had then connected to the system they too would have been corrupted, he said.  dr gasson admits that the test is a proof of principle but he thinks it has important implications for a future where medical devices such as pacemakers and cochlear implants become more sophisticated, and risk being contaminated by other human implants.  "with the benefits of this type of technology come risks. we may improve ourselves in some way but much like the improvements with other technologies, mobile phones for example, they become vulnerable to risks, such as security problems and  computer-virus es." he also added: "many people with medical implants also consider them to be integrated into their concept of their body, and so in this context it is appropriate to talk in terms of people themselves being infected by  computer-virus es." however, dr gasson predicts that wider use will be made of implanted technology. "this type of technology has been commercialised in the united states as a type of medical alert bracelet, so that if you're found unconscious you can be scanned and your medical history brought up."  professor rafael capurro of the steinbeis-transfer-institute of information ethics in germany told bbc news that the research was "interesting".  "if someone can get online access to your implant, it could be serious," he said. professor capurro contributed to a 2005 ethical study for the european commission that looked at the development of digital implants and possible abuse of them. "from an ethical point of view, the surveillance of implants can be both positive and negative," he said.  "surveillance can be part of medical care, but if someone wants to do harm to you, it could be a problem." in addition, he said, that there should be caution if implants with surveillance capabilities started to be used outside of a medical setting.  however, dr gasson believes that there will be a demand for these non-essential applications, much as people pay for cosmetic surgery. "if we can find a way of enhancing someone's memory or their iq then there's a real possibility that people will choose to have this kind of invasive procedure." dr gasson works at the university of reading's school of systems engineering and will present the results of his research at the international symposium for technology and society in australia next month. professor capurro will also talk at the event.  a computer-virus  has hit parts of the computer system used by south central ambulance service (scas).  the problem first occurred on tuesday but has not affected the parts used to deal with 999 calls, the trust said. however it could take several days to eradicate the computer-virus , which has mainly affected email systems.   the trust said: "it is important to stress that this computer-virus  has not affected our 999 systems and has had no impact on patient care or confidential data." scas covers hampshire, berkshire, oxfordshire and buckinghamshire. in a statement it said: "we can reassure members of the public dialling 999 that they will not notice any effect on the services provided. "the organisation has comprehensive contingency plans in place which have been seamlessly and swiftly implemented, ensuring there is no impact on patient care.  "we are working with our it providers to rectify the problems as quickly as possible." it said the service was operating as normal. at least seven boats have caught fire at a shipyard in the port of bushehr in southern iran, state media report. the head of the local crisis management organisation told irna news agency that the blaze had been contained and that no casualties had been reported. the cause was not clear, but it is the latest in a series of mysterious incidents in iran in recent weeks.  they have included explosions and fires at a missile facility, a power plant, a medical clinic and a nuclear complex. the incidents have led to speculation about a campaign of sabotage. iran denies reports of fresh explosion what is behind mysterious fires at iran sites? on monday, there was a fire at an industrial zone near the north-eastern city of mashhad. officials said six gas storage tanks caught fire, and that one exploded.  the previous day, a fire broke out at a petrochemical facility in the south-western mahshahr area which was blamed on an oil leak. and on saturday, several gas cylinders exploded inside the basement of an apartment building in tehran, the capital's fire department said. iranian officials have said they are looking into whether sabotage by foreign powers or domestic opposition groups may have been the cause of earlier blasts at the natanz uranium enrichment plant on 2 july and the khojir missile production facility on 26 june. in 2010, a  computer-virus  widely believed to have been developed by the united states and israel was used to attack machinery at natanz. northern ireland computer networks may have been infected by a computer-virus  that plunged parts of the nhs elsewhere in the uk into chaos, police have said. the same computer-virus  may have infiltrated systems in ni, but not yet been activated, said the psni. the warning follows friday's cyber-attack which affected more than 200,000 victims in 150 countries. the  ransomware  computer-virus  locked files and demanded payment to allow access and avoid data being destroyed. the psni said it was working with national and international law enforcement agencies to reduce any risk to computer networks in northern ireland. the police have also urged public and private sector organisations and businesses to help combat the threat of a cyber attack. det ch insp douglas grant, who heads up the psni cyber crime unit, said there is no evidence yet that the computer-virus  has infiltrated computer networks in northern ireland. but he said that did not mean northern ireland has not been targeted. "thankfully we haven't experienced any of this current strain, but we must be vigilant because it could come to northern ireland at any point and it could have infections in our systems at the moment that just haven't activated," said det ch insp grant. the psni said its cyber crime centre would continue to actively participate "in the national co-ordinated response to this attack and we would encourage all local businesses and public services to take immediate steps to protect their systems and reduce their vulnerability. "we would also recommend that businesses and industries join the local cyber information sharing partnership (cisp) so they can receive the most up to date threat and mitigation information to help protect their cyber security." the police said further information was available via the national cyber security centre and appealed to anyone who believes they may be victims of cyber-attack to contact them. the national cyber security centre has advised companies to: keep security software patches up to dateuse proper anti-virus software servicesback up the data that matters, because you can't be held to ransom for data you hold somewhere else the police say organisations and individuals in northern ireland are being targeted on a daily basis by cyber criminals trying to steal data or commit fraud or blackmail. they say it is a matter of when, not if, hackers target northern ireland in a large-scale attack. fears of a massive global  computer-virus  outbreak have prompted microsoft to issue security updates for very old versions of its windows software. one patch is for windows xp, which debuted in 2001 and microsoft stopped supporting in 2014.  microsoft said the patch closed a hole that could be used to spread a computer-virus . malicious hackers exploiting it could kick off a worldwide outbreak like the 2017  ransomware  worm, which hit thousands of machines.  it was "highly likely" the vulnerability would be exploited if it went unpatched, wrote simon pope, microsoft's director of incident response, in a blog about the bug. he said the bug could be exploited simply by connecting to a vulnerable machine over the internet.  "any future  malware  that exploits this vulnerability could propagate from vulnerable computer to vulnerable computer in a similar way as the  ransomware   malware  spread across the globe in 2017," he said. this danger prompted the release of a patch that closes the loophole in: windows xpwindows 2003windows 7windows server 2008 market industry data suggests about 3.75% of desktop machines currently use xp or its variants.  technology news site wired said the wide range of vulnerable versions of windows meant "millions" of machines were at risk. although microsoft ended support for windows xp more than five years ago, the last software patch it issued for the operating system was released just prior to the  ransomware  outbreak. "we strongly advise that all affected systems... should be updated as soon as possible," said mr pope. microsoft said there was no evidence that cyber-criminals were currently exploiting the loophole.  people and organisations using windows 8 or 10 were not at risk, microsoft said. independent security expert graham cluley said the creation of the patch for xp showed the threat of a virulent worm was "serious". many old and vulnerable systems were still "riskily" connected to the internet, he said, urging people to update swiftly. two companies involved in building emergency coronavirus hospitals have been hit by cyber-attacks this month. interserve, which helped build birmingham's nhs nightingale hospital, and bam construct, which delivered the yorkshire and the humber's, have reported the incidents to authorities.  earlier this month, the government warned healthcare groups involved in the response to the computer-virus  were being targeted by malicious actors. the separate attacks were not linked. but bam construct said the "significant" cyber-attack on it "forms part of the wave of attacks on public and private organisations supporting the national effort on covid-19". cyber-spies hunt covid-19 research, us and uk warncapt tom opens new nhs nightingale hospitalbirmingham's nightingale hospital 'has no patients' a spokesman said the company had shut down its website and some other systems as a precaution, after being hit by a  computer-virus . but its day-to-day business had remained largely unaffected.  "our own precautions have had more of an effect on our normal working procedures than the computer-virus  itself," he said. interserve, meanwhile, said "some operational services may be affected". but it was working with the national cyber security centre (ncsc) to "contain and remedy the situation" and had notified the information commissioner's office and warned its employees, former employees, clients and suppliers to "exercise heightened vigilance during this time". lockdown update: what's changing, where?schools: when will children be returning?exercise: what are the guidelines on getting out?the r number: what it means and why it mattersair travellers: the new quarantine ruleslook-up tool: how many cases in your area?global spread: tracking the pandemicrecovery: how long does it take to get better?a simple guide:  what are the symptoms? the outsourcing company also provides facilities management and other services and holds a range of contracts with the government beyond the construction sector. earlier this month, the ncsc warned of attempts to attack healthcare and research organisations during the pandemic. and the government warned malicious actors were "seeking to undermine the global response to this unprecedented global health crisis endanger lives". a  computer-virus  forced a us-regulated maritime facility offline for more than 30 hours, the country's coast guard has revealed.   ransomware  interrupted cameras, door-access control systems and critical monitoring systems at the site. the agency did not reveal the name or the location of the facility targeted by the attack.  officials said they believed the  ransomware  was sent in a malicious email link, clicked by an employee.  the us coast guard (uscg) issued a security bulletin on 16 december, urging other bases to take measures to prevent further attacks.  "once the embedded malicious link in the email was clicked by an employee, the  ransomware  allowed for a threat actor to access significant enterprise information technology (it) network files, and encryption them, preventing the facility's access to critical files," it said.  "the computer-virus  further burrowed into the industrial control systems that monitor and control cargo transfer and  encryption  files critical to process operations." how a  ransomware  attack cost one firm £45mwhat is  ransomware ? the bbc has contacted the uscg for more details.   ransomware  attacks were a significant problem during 2019, when several companies and governments were targeted.  the city of new orleans declared a state of emergency in december after suspicious activity was detected on its network.  once officials confirmed they were under attack, servers and computers were closed down.  weeks earlier, virtual care provider, which offers technology services to nursing homes, was hit by a  ransomware  attack that  encryption  patients' health records.  hackers demanded $14m (£10.6m) to restore access to the hijacked servers.  an infamous hacker group that was thought to have disbanded appears to be behind a wave of new attacks being carried out across the world. researchers at cyber-security company secureworks say they reached their conclusion after analysing a new strain of  computer-virus . they claim the culprits are the gandcrab crew. the gang is thought to be russian and previously sold customised  ransomware  to other criminals. their code had scrambled data on victims' computers and demanded blackmail payments to decrypt it. it is estimated to have affected more than 1.5 million machines, with hospitals among those affected. in may, the group had surprised many in the security industry when it announced it was "retiring" after earning more than $2bn (£1.6bn) from the trade. someone claiming to be part of the group claimed it had "cashed out" its earnings and quit the business. it had been active since about january 2018.  but secureworks has linked the group to a new strain of  ransomware  called revil or sondinokibi.  the  malware  has caused major disruption to hundreds of dental practices in the us as well as 22 texas municipalities.  researchers say not only is the code similar to that of the earlier attacks but that it contains similar mistakes. don smith, director of secureworks counter threat unit, said his team had the group "bang to rights".  "we weren't surprised the group resurfaced," he added. "gandcrab offered a good return for criminal actors. it's unlikely an existing and proficient group would just walk away from that. "it's possible that they wanted to reduce the overall attention that was focused on the gandcrab 'brand' and have relaunched with a new product."  the uk's biggest provider of forensic services has paid a ransom to criminals after its it systems were disrupted in a cyber-attack, bbc news has learned. eurofins scientific was infected with a  ransomware   computer-virus  a month ago, which led british police to suspend work with the global testing company. at the time, the firm described the attack as "highly sophisticated". bbc news has not been told how much money was involved in the ransom payment or when it was paid. the national crime agency (nca) said it was a "matter for the victim" as to whether a ransom had been paid. the agency, which is investigating the attack, said: "as there is an ongoing criminal investigation, it would be inappropriate to comment." eurofins previously said the attack was "well-resourced" but three weeks later said its operations were "returning to normal". cyber-attack hits police forensic work it said it would also not comment on whether a ransom had been paid or not. it added it was "collaborating with law enforcement" in the uk and elsewhere. the  ransomware  attack hit the company, which accounts for over half of forensic science provision in the uk, on the first weekend in june.  ransomware  is a  computer-virus  that prevents users from accessing their system or personal files. messages sent by the perpetrators demand a payment in order to unlock the frozen accounts. eurofins deals with over 70,000 criminal cases in the uk each year. it carries out dna testing, toxicology analysis, firearms testing and computer forensics for police forces across the uk. forensic science work has been carried out by private firms and police laboratories in england and wales since the closure of the government's forensic science service in 2012. an emergency police response to the cyber-attack was led by the national police chiefs' council (npcc) to manage the flow of forensic submissions so dna and blood samples which needed urgent testing were sent to other suppliers. it has led to delays in forensic science provision and is understood to have caused some court hearings to be postponed because information on the results of analysis conducted by eurofins was not accessible. the ransom is likely to have been paid between 10 june, when eurofins issued a lengthy statement about the attack, and june 24 when it published an optimistic update, saying it had "identified the variant of the  malware  used" in the attack and had strengthened cyber-security. it said: "we are continuing to work intensively with leading cybersecurity experts to further secure our current systems and infrastructure and to add enhanced security features and measures to protect our systems and data." "the investigations conducted so far by our internal and external it forensics experts have not found evidence of any unauthorised theft or transfer of confidential client data." the npcc refused to comment on the ransom payment but police sources said "excellent progress" had been made in dealing with the fall-out of the cyber attack.  police and law enforcement agencies in the uk are still not submitting new samples to eurofins for analysis but the company says it is working towards giving them the assurances they need for fresh work to restart. the crown prosecution service said: "we are working to make sure all hearings remain fair and based on reliable evidence. while investigations are ongoing, prosecutors will assess the impact on a case by case basis. "cases where forensic evidence does not play a major role will continue as ‎usual if all parties agree.  "if ‎test results provided by eurofins are central, we will seek to adjourn cases for the shortest possible period." eurofins is the third major forensic science problem to hit law enforcement following the collapse of key forensic services and a criminal investigation into alleged irregularities at randox testing. a cyber-attack on the uk's biggest forensic services provider led to a backlog of 20,000 samples, the bbc has learned. eurofins scientific was targeted by a "highly-sophisticated"  ransomware  computer-virus  in june, which led british police to suspend work with the company. the national police chiefs' council (npcc) is now clearing the backlog, which includes blood and dna specimens. it warned of delays to police investigations and court cases. forensic firm paid ransom after cyber-attackcyber-attack hits police forensic work the npcc said it decided three weeks ago that it was safe for police forces to use the firm again. since then, it has managed to reduce the backlog to 15,000. the "overwhelming majority" of cases - which include specimens from suspects and evidence from crime scenes - will be cleared within two months, the police body added. the npcc lead for the forensic marketplace, assistant chief constable paul gibson, said: "the security and integrity of the criminal justice system is of the highest possible priority, which meant we had to take stringent steps to ensure that police data had, firstly, not been manipulated or changed and, secondly, was suitably protected for the future." eurofins carries out dna testing, toxicology analysis, firearms testing and computer forensics for police forces across the uk. it deals with more than 70,000 criminal cases in the uk each year. last month, the bbc was told the global testing firm paid a ransom to the perpetrators of the cyber-attack to restore access to its computer network. the  ransomware  attack hit the company, which accounts for more than half of forensic science provision in the uk, on the first weekend in june.  ransomware  is a  computer-virus  that prevents users from accessing their system or personal files. messages sent by the perpetrators demand a payment in order to unlock the frozen accounts. the use of private firms and police laboratories to carry out forensic science work was stepped up after the closure of the state-owned forensic science service in 2012.   the national crime agency is still investigating the attack. nato secretary general jens stoltenberg says all 29 member countries would respond to a serious cyber-attack on one of them. writing in prospect magazine, he said such an incident would trigger a "collective defence commitment", known as article 5 of its founding treaty. article 5 has not been triggered since the 9/11 terror attacks on the us in 2001. nato's members include the us, canada and many european countries. "we have designated cyber-space a domain in which nato will operate and defend itself as effectively as it does in the air, on land, and at sea," he wrote in his article. it's not the first time mr stoltenberg has made this claim. as an example of a major cyber-incident, he mentioned the 2017  ransomware   ransomware  attack which crippled the nhs in the uk and caused havoc around the world, although this did not trigger article 5 at the time.  us president donald trump has previously criticised the 70-year-old military alliance, saying the us contributes more funding to it than any other member country. analysis by bbc security correspondent gordon corera the idea that an attack on one is an attack on all underpins nato - but adapting it to cyber-space raises complicated issues.  in the cold war, a missile launch or a tank column advancing would have left little doubt of what constituted an attack.  but in the cyber-world it is not always so easy.  when estonia saw its infrastructure hit through cyber-space in 2007, it was blamed on russia. but was it the russian state or "patriotic hackers" operating within russia? and at whose direction?  another issue is the threshold for considering something an attack.  russia is accused of turning off a power station in (non-nato member) ukraine in december 2015. the crippling of infrastructure is one possibility for reaching a threshold for article 5.  but what of 2017 when russia is alleged to have launched the notpetya  computer-virus  against ukraine but which then spilled over into other countries (including nato members) damaging businesses at a cost of billions of dollars?  computer-virus es that threaten to delete your files unless you pay a ransom are known as  ransomware .security experts have warned that  ransomware  is the fastest growing form of  computer-virus .like other  computer-virus es, it usually finds its way onto a device by exploiting a security hole in vulnerable software or by tricking somebody into installing it.bbc technology reporter zoe kleinman explains what  ransomware  does.video journalist: chris fox british cyber-security expert marcus hutchins - who has been accused of writing computer-virus  code - has lost a legal bid to suppress some evidence prosecutors want to use against him.  the evidence is comments he made in an interview after the fbi arrested him.  he wanted the testimony discounted, claiming he gave it when "intoxicated". a court ruling issued earlier this week threw out the request saying there was no evidence that he was under the influence of drugs. fbi agents arrested mr hutchins on 2 august 2017 at las vegas's mccarran international airport as he was starting his journey home after attending the def con hacker conference. he has been held in the us ever since his arrest. he faces 10 charges related to  malware , or  malware , including a program called kronos which is designed to steal banking credentials. he has pleaded not guilty to the charges. judge jp stadtmueller wrote: "hutchins appeared to be alert, engaged, co-ordinated, and coherent," in his ruling, tech news site ars technica recorded. the judge added that there was no evidence that mr hutchins was under the influence of drugs but was rather suffering a "terrible hangover". this did not render him unable to understand the procedure or be fully aware of why he was being quizzed, said the judge. the ruling also said he was informed of all relevant rights prior to the interview by the agents who arrested him.  mr hutchins, from ilfracombe in devon, came to prominence for his pivotal role in preventing the spread of the  ransomware   computer-virus  in early 2017.   a russian man faces up to 10 years in jail for spreading a  computer-virus  that cost victims more than $500m (£401m). mark vartanyan, 29, developed and distributed the citadel  spyware , which lets criminals steal bank account details and hold files to ransom. us prosecutors said it had infected about 11 million computers worldwide.  he pleaded guilty to one count of computer fraud, in a court in atlanta, after being extradited from norway. launched in 2011, citadel was marketed on invitation-only, russian-language internet forums used by cybercriminals. its users had targeted the computer networks of major financial and government institutions around the world, prosecutors said.  vartanyan admitted to the "development, improvement, maintenance and distribution" of citadel between 2012 and 2014 while living in ukraine and norway. operating under the alias kolypto, he uploaded "numerous electronic files" that consisted of citadel  malware , components, updates and patches, as well as customer information. earlier in march, david levalley, special agent at the fbi atlanta office, said vartanyan's arrest removed "a significant player" from the resources available to cybercriminals. "we must continue to impose real costs on criminals who believe they are protected by geographic boundaries and can prey on the american people," he said. vartanyan agreed to cooperate with prosecutors in exchange for a reduced prison term. he will be sentenced in june.  in september 2015, a us court sentenced russian citizen dimitry belorossov to four years and six months in prison after he admitted distributing and installing citadel on to computers. the department of justice said its investigation into the creator of citadel continued.  several us newspapers suffered major printing and delivery disruptions on saturday following a cyber-attack. the attack led to delayed distribution of the los angeles times, chicago tribune, baltimore sun and other titles belonging to tribune publishing. the company said it first detected the  malware  on friday, which hit papers sharing the same printing plant. the attack is believed to have come from outside the us, the la times said. west coast editions of the wall street journal and the new york times, which share the same production platform in los angeles, were also affected. "we believe the intention of the attack was to disable infrastructure, more specifically servers, as opposed to looking to steal information," an anonymous source with knowledge of the attack told the la times. us warns of supply chain cyber-attacksus news sites still blocked in europedisney v the la times: what's the story? tribune publishing spokeswoman marisa kollias confirmed this in a statement, saying the computer-virus  hurt back-office systems used to publish and produce "newspapers across our properties". "every market across the company was impacted," ms kollias said, refusing to give more specifications on the disruptions, according to the la times. other publications owned by the company include the new york daily news, orlando sentinel and the annapolis capital-gazette, whose staff were the targets of a deadly shooting earlier this year. another publication, the fort lauderdale sun-sentinel was also "crippled this weekend by a  computer-virus  that shut down production and hampered phone lines," according to a story on its website. "we are aware of reports of a potential cyber incident affecting several news outlets and are working with our government and industry partners to better understand the situation," a department of homeland security official said in a statement.  investigators at the federal bureau of investigations were not immediately available for comment. a woman carrying two chinese passports and a device with computer  malware  allegedly lied to enter us president donald trump's mar-a-lago club.  the woman, yujing zhang, 32, told security she was at the florida club to go to the pool, according to a criminal complaint filed in us district court.  "due to a potential language barrier issue," staff believed she was related to a club member and let her in. mr trump was in palm beach at the time of the incident on saturday 30 march. ms zhang - who was described in the affidavit as an "asian female" - is charged with making false statements to a federal officer and illegally entering a restricted area.  according to the court documents, upon entry to the club ms zhang changed her story, telling a front-desk receptionist she was there to attend a "united nations chinese american association" event.  the receptionist, who knew that such an event had been scheduled, became suspicious of ms zhang.  the suspect was transported off the property for further questioning.  she told agents she had been instructed by a friend, identified only as "charles", to travel from shanghai, china, to palm beach to attend the purported united nations event, but did not provide any more details, according to court documents.  she said "charles" had encouraged her to attempt to speak to a member of the president's family about chinese-american economic relations, said the affidavit. secret service agent samuel ivanovich said ms zhang carried four mobile phones, a laptop, an external hard drive and a thumb drive containing a  computer-virus , but no swim suit.  trump must share mar-a-lago visitor logtrump's mar-a-lago cited for food safety'trump cheats at the highest level' in the court document, mr ivanovich notes that ms zhang "freely and without difficulty conversed" in english, becoming "verbally aggressive" with authorities as the investigation progressed.  the secret service said in a statement that it "does not determine who is invited or welcome at mar-a-lago; this is the responsibility of the host entity.  "the mar-a-lago club management determines which members and guests are granted access to the property." ms zhang's lawyer has so far declined comment.  she will remain in custody until a hearing next week.  if convicted, she could face a maximum of five years in prison.  president donald trump has set a new standard for extraordinary presidential behaviour.  not only has he tweeted what would normally be a highly classified, military-quality satellite image showing the devastation around the launch pad at iran's main space centre following a significant explosion.  he has gone further by apparently taunting the iranians, insisting the us was not involved in the "catastrophic accident" but also wishing iran "good luck" in finding out what happened.  was this presidential sarcasm or misinformation?  was he implying that somebody else might indeed have been involved?  or was it just the president's regular habit of responding by saying the first thing that came into his head?  it's hard to say. but, as ever, mr trump's intervention raises more questions than it answers.  for some weeks now experts have been reporting preparations for an iranian space launch.  commercial satellite imagery of the space centre showed the launch pad being made ready. the mission, according to iranian reports, was to put a small telecommunications satellite - nahid 1 - into orbit.  two previous launch attempts at the start of this year had ended in failure.  this one, too, appears now to have ended in disaster. the difference, though, is that the full magnitude of the calamity has been revealed by president trump himself.  so what caused iran's rocket to explode so dramatically on the launchpad?  we simply do not know. but there are two obvious answers.  what would a us-iran conflict look like?iran nuclear deal: key details firstly it could have been down to a simple technical malfunction; a problem with fuel or some kind of error in the rocket's manufacture - a faulty weld seam or whatever.  these things happen; think back to some of the disasters during america's own space programme. even the most technologically advanced nations have setbacks. but iran's track record with launches is very poor.  a new york times article back in february, drawing heavily on interviews with unnamed us officials, suggested that iran's two earlier failures this year were part of a pattern.  it suggested that some 67% of iran's orbital launch attempts over the past 11 years had failed.  it described this as "an astonishingly high number" compared to the average 5% failure rate for comparable launches worldwide."  the article indicated that the trump administration was moving to reactivate a sabotage programme against iran's missile efforts by introducing faulty parts into the supply chain and so on.  a previous us effort had been phased out by president obama. so could sabotage be implicated in this latest accident?  who knows, but mr trump himself has only muddied the waters by his twitter intervention. there is a significant history of external forces attempting to hamper iran's military research.  israel and the us were involved in efforts to sabotage iran's uranium enrichment programme using a  computer-virus .  iranian scientists and technicians have been assassinated.  us-iran relations: a brief history and of course both the us and israel see iran's space programme as inextricably linked to its wider missile efforts.  however, the most extraordinary aspect of this affair is the president's publication of a normally classified high-resolution satellite image that could only have come from a military source.  this has thrown the missile and arms control community on the twitter-sphere into a frenzy.  it is an amazing thing for a us president to do, giving all washington's enemies a very public insight into its extraordinary intelligence-gathering capabilities. police have suspended work with the uk's biggest private forensic company following a cyber-attack on the firm. the suspension has led to delays in forensic testing, which could impact on court cases. eurofins forensic services carries out dna testing, toxicology analysis, firearms testing and computer forensics for police forces across the uk.  its parent company, eurofins, suffered a  ransomware  attack on 1 or 2 june, which is under criminal investigation.  ransomware  is a  computer-virus  that prevents users from accessing their system or personal files and demands ransom payment in order to unlock access. it is the latest in a series of major forensic science problems to hit police forces since the closure of the government-owned service in england and wales in 2012. forensics error drug-drive cases quashed met investigator 'botched' casesforensic science standards 'at risk' an emergency police response has been put in place, led by the national police chiefs' council (npcc), which took the decision to "temporarily suspend" all submissions to eurofins.  eurofins, which caters for over 50% of the uk market, deals with over 70,000 criminal cases in the uk each year.  a group of senior officers will ensure the most serious crimes are given priority, as well as ensuring other forensic providers aren't overloaded with submissions. "our priority is to minimise the impact on the criminal justice system," said the npcc lead for forensics, chief constable james vaughan. "it is too early to fully quantify the impact but we are working at pace with partners to understand and mitigate the risks." the crown prosecution service said a police investigation was ongoing, but at this stage there was "no evidence to suggest that previous convictions were unsafe". a spokesperson added: "the cps is assessing current cases to identify any impact on criminal trials as a result of this attack, and will ensure all necessary action is taken to allow them to proceed fairly." eurofins said the attack "caused disruption to many of its it systems in several countries" in a statement on it website. it said it believed the attack was carried out by "highly sophisticated well-resourced perpetrators" and the  ransomware  involved appears to have been a "new  malware  variant".    the national crime agency is conducting an investigation into the cyber attack, supported by the national cyber security centre. a government spokesperson said: "we are working closely with law enforcement and justice partners to investigate the sources of the attack and minimise any impact on our criminal justice system." forensic science work has been carried out by private firms and police laboratories in england and wales since the closure of the government's forensic science service in 2012.  last year 40 drug-driving offences were quashed and thousands of cases were reviewed after data was allegedly manipulated at randox testing services.  another company - key forensic services - collapsed in january 2018, while the met police also had to carry out a review after a forensic scientist apparently botched examinations. eurofins has seven laboratories in the uk - teddington, south-west london; leeds dock, in leeds; risley, cheshire; wakefield, west yorkshire; culham, oxfordshire; fordham, cambridgeshire; tamworth, staffordshire.  it also provides a range of other screening services to industry, agriculture and the pharmaceutical sector. the impact on these services is unclear.  online poker players are being targeted by a  computer-virus  that spies on their virtual cards. the software shares the cards with the computer-virus 's creators who then join the same game and try to fleece the victim. the sneaky  malware  has been found lurking in software designed to help poker fans play better, said the security firm that found it. the software also targets other useful information on a victim's computer such as login names and passwords. the  malware  targets players of the pokerstars and full tilt poker sites, said robert lipovsky, a security researcher at eset, in a blogpost.  when it infects a machine, the software monitors the pc's activity and springs to life when a victim has logged in to either one of the two poker sites. it then starts taking screenshots of their activity and the cards they are dealt. screenshots are then sent to the attacker. the images show the hand the player has been dealt as well as their player id. this, said eset, allows the attacker to search the sites for that player and join their game. using information about a victim's hand gives the attacker a significant advantage. "we are unsure whether the perpetrator plays the games manually or in some automated way," wrote mr lipovsky. eset found the windows  malware  lurking in some well-known file-sharing applications, pc utilities as well as several widely used poker calculators and player databases. eset said the  spyware  had been active for several months and most victims were in eastern europe, particularly russia and the ukraine. a type of anaesthetic machine that has been used in nhs hospitals can be hacked and controlled from afar if left accessible on a hospital computer network, a cyber-security company says. a successful attacker would be able to change the amount of anaesthetic delivered to a patient, cybermdx said. alarms designed to alert anaesthetists to any danger could also be silenced. ge healthcare, which makes the machines, said there was no "direct patient risk". but cybermdx's research suggested the aespire and aestiva 7100 and 7900 devices could be targeted by hackers if left accessible on hospital computer networks. and analysis by bbc news found multiple references online to the aespire and aestiva machines being used in nhs hospitals. nottingham university hospitals (nuh) nhs trust confirmed to the bbc that "a small number" of the devices were currently in use at its facilities, but were being phased out. "none of the anaesthetic machines are connected to the internet or the nuh network so there is very little risk around these machines within nuh," a spokesman told the bbc. security warning over hospital syringe pumps computer-virus  alters cancer scan images nhs digital said it could not confirm the extent to which the machines were still in use across the nhs. "we are currently assessing the volume of these particular anaesthetic machines in use across england and we will be sharing any subsequent advice with trusts in the coming days," a spokeswoman said. elad luz, head of research at cybermdx, said he was aware of hospitals in the us and asia that also used the devices. ge healthcare said it was satisfied a cyber-attack would "not introduce clinical hazard or patient risk".  it said this was because anaesthetic devices were "attended" by anaesthetists and would be monitored for any errors. the company told bbc news it did not plan to release any security updates for the anaesthetic machines but hospitals should use secure network protocols to protect them from would-be hackers. cyber-security expert ken munro agreed that medical devices should be isolated within computer networks but added: "it's not, frankly, the case in many hospital networks." and he said ge healthcare should bear some responsibility for the issue. "ge absolutely have a part to play in this and they absolutely should be building devices with strong security," mr munro added. a malicious hacker may try to gain access to a hospital's network, locate one of the machines and then adjust its settings, said prof harold thimbleby, an expert in medical device cyber-security, at swansea university. and he gave the example of  ransomware , a  ransomware  outbreak that spread through nhs computer networks in 2017, to illustrate how an attack could unfold. "as with  ransomware , a  phishing  attack can gain access and then an attacker can do what they like," he told bbc news. "given the worldwide profile of  ransomware , it is amazing vulnerabilities like this are still around." the likelihood of harm being caused to a patient through any hacking of the devices was "incredibly small" said dr helgi johannsson, consultant anaesthetist and royal college of anaesthetists council member. "patients should be reassured that their anaesthetist will be monitoring them constantly, and will have received many years of training to rectify immediately the situation of a device failure." a spokeswoman for the uk's medicines and healthcare products regulatory agency said reports of the cyber-security vulnerability were now part of an "ongoing area of investigation". "patient safety is our highest priority and where necessary we will take action to protect public health," she added. the us department of homeland security's industrial control systems cyber emergency response team (ics-cert) has published an advisory notice about the vulnerability. a man has been jailed for his part in stealing £1.3m by infecting high street cash machines with a  computer-virus . teofil bortos, 36, of cheltenham gardens, newham, east london, was in a gang that targeted 51 atms across england in the space of five days, the old bailey heard. bortos, who admitted conspiracy to defraud atm provider cardtronics uk, was sentenced to seven years in prison. none of the stolen cash - £1,373,640 in total - has been recovered. most of the gang remains at large. their identities are unknown. the old bailey heard that in may 2014, cash was withdrawn in locations including london, liverpool, blackpool, brighton, bognor regis and portsmouth. the scam involved activating  malware  on atm computers. following the attacks, the  malware  deleted itself and no customer data was compromised. while bortos was not accused of inserting the  malware , the court heard he was in a trusted position in the gang. he was present at 19 cashpoints from which around £191,000 was stolen. co-conspirator grigore paladi, who admitted his guilt, received a five-year prison sentence after an earlier hearing at southwark crown court. a  computer-virus  that tries to avoid detection by making the machine it infects unusable has been found. if rombertik's evasion techniques are triggered, it deletes key files on a computer, making it constantly restart. analysts said rombertik was "unique" among  malware  samples for resisting capture so aggressively. on windows machines where it goes unnoticed, the  malware  steals login data and other confidential information. rombertik typically infected a vulnerable machine after a booby-trapped attachment on a  phishing  message had been opened, security researchers ben baker and alex chiu, from cisco, said in a blogpost. some of the messages rombertik travels with pose as business enquiry letters from microsoft. the  malware  "indiscriminately" stole data entered by victims on any website, the researchers said. and it got even nastier when it spotted someone was trying to understand how it worked.  "rombertik is unique in that it actively attempts to destroy the computer if it detects certain attributes associated with  malware  analysis," the researchers said. the  malware  regularly carries out internal checks to see if it is under analysis. if it believes it is, it will attempt to delete an essential windows system file called the master boot record (mbr).  it will then restart the machine which, because the mbr is missing, will go into an endless restart loop. the code replacing the mbr makes the machine print out a message mocking attempts to analyse it. restoring a pc with its mbr deleted involves reinstalling windows, which could mean important data is lost. rombertik also uses other tricks to foil analysis.  one involves writing a byte of data to memory 960 million times to overwhelm analysis tools that try to spot  malware  by logging system activity. security expert graham cluley said destructive computer-virus es such as rombertik were quite rare. "it's not the norm," he said.  "that's because  malware  these days doesn't want to draw attention to itself, as that works against its typical goal - to lie in wait, stealing information for a long time." gamers are being targeted by a  computer-virus  that stops them playing their favourite titles unless they pay a ransom. on infected machines, the malicious program seeks out saved games and other files and  encryption  them. a key to unlock  encryption  files is only supplied if victims pay at least $500 (£340) in bitcoins. the  malware  targets 40 separate games including call of duty, world of warcraft, minecraft and world of tanks. the malicious program looks similar to the much more widely distributed  ransomware   ransomware  that has caught out thousands of people over the last couple of years.  but analysis of the  malware , called teslacrypt, reveals that it shares no code with  ransomware  and appears to be have been created by a different cybercrime group. researcher vadim kotov from security firm bromium said the file was catching people out via a website its creators had managed to compromise. the site involved is a wordpress blog that is inadvertently hosting a file that abuses a loophole in flash to infect visitors. one a machine is infected, wrote mr kotov, the  malware  looks for 185 different file extensions. in particular, it seeks out files associated with many popular video games and online services such as steam that give people access to them. "interestingly, although these are all popular games, none of them matches any particular 'top sellers' or 'most played' chart, " said mr kotov. "they could just be games the developer loves to play." files holding gamers' profiles, maps, saves and modified versions of games are all sought by teslacrypt, he said. he said anyone who tries to outwit the  malware  by uninstalling a game they obtained via an online service may end up disappointed.  "often it's not possible to restore this kind of data even after re-installing a game via steam," he wrote. once target files are  encryption  the  malware  pops up a window telling victims they have a few days to pay up and retrieve their data. to decrypt, victims can either pay $500 in bitcoins or $1,000 in paypal my cash payment cards. the computer-virus  tells victims to send payment details to an address located on the tor anonymous browsing network.  the  encryption  system used by teslacrypt has yet to be cracked meaning victims would have to turn to back-ups to restore scrambled files. something wasn't right about the phone screen. it had gone dark. that's when nick harvey examined it more closely. it looked odd. and it was then that he saw the message. his smart phone had, in effect, been hijacked and he was being asked to pay a ransom. "my device had been locked", he told bbc radio 4's pm programme.  he was being instructed "to send some money via a voucher code to get the phone unlocked". ken main knows how nick felt. it happened to him with the computers at his hairdressing salon in glasgow. "it was a pale blue screen with the message right in the middle," he explained. "if we wanted the information back we would have to pay a ransom." they had both become victims of what is known as  ransomware  - a type of  computer-virus  which unlocks the users out of their computers or phones and demands money for the return of the files. "it's like somebody breaking into your house", ken said." it was a message which kind of created the same sort of emotional fear and then you start thinking 'god, what happens if i can't get this information back?'" you are probably now trying to guess how much ken and nick were being asked to pay. it is possibly quite a lot lower than you would think. "they asked me for $50 or €50" nick recalled. for ken it was slightly more. "they were looking for a ransom of $350 initially," he said. "when we contacted them by email, they put that up to €1000." the demands are set at what is regarded as a payable level, according to jornt van der wiel from the security software company, kaspersky lab. they tend to be for "the amount of money that people are still willing to pay in order to get their files back."  he explained, for a small business, "sometimes it's cheaper for the company just to pay the ransom than to put back the backup because that in the end costs more". nick harvey did not have to part with any money. he managed to get his phone working again although he did lose some data. ken, however, felt he had no choice but to pay up.  "i said, 'well i need that bloody information back. i've got a business to run here.' i think any businessman in my position would say 'yes! let's do it', because i've got no other way of getting information to rebuild that database." according to mr van der wiel,  ransomware  can enter your computer via malicious email attachments. his advice is not to open any file which you are suspicious about. he says there can also be a problem if the latest "security patches" on your internet browser have not been installed. such are the difficulties that a  ransomware  attack can create; even those responsible for enforcing the law have given into the criminals. when the systems at the police department in tewksbury, massachusetts, were affected, computer experts tried everything but to no avail. "we couldn't restore it from an external back-up" chief timothy sheehan said "because that was also corrupted and the taped back-up we had was at least 18 months old. we realised we were in a perfect storm. we were in a very bad situation." the police department paid the ransom via a third party. "ultimately we decided that in our particular situation we should take the shot of paying the 500 dollars in bitcoin and see if we got the decryption key returned to us and we could return all of the data that was  encryption  back to its normal status." chief sheehan conceded that it meant paying money to criminals and he now wants to highlight the threat  ransomware  poses. according to raj samani, intel security's chief technology officer in europe, the middle east and africa, those behind  ransomware  are making hundreds of millions of dollars. he said there has been "enormous growth in  ransomware  certainly over the last 12 months".  he believes people in the uk are particularly vulnerable. there are many different types of  ransomware  computer-virus es but according to mr samani "in almost every single type we look at, the uk is either second or third on that list, so i would argue that the uk is targeted disproportionately  with regards to the number of internet users that we have." security experts have found ways of unlocking some forms of  ransomware  but those behind the cyber criminals are developing more sophisticated computer-virus es too.  back in the hairdressers in glasgow, ken main has no regrets about paying the ransom. however, it didn't solve all his problems. do not think paying up means all will end well. "i would say 80 to 90% of the information was corrupted" he said. "in terms of hard cash income i would say we were probably down by about £20,000." israel has denied it bugged talks on iran's nuclear programme, after a security company said a  computer-virus  hacked the venues of the negotiations. the russian firm kaspersky lab said the hacking at three european hotels was so sophisticated, it must have been created by a government. world powers and iran have been holding talks on the fate of iran's nuclear programme ahead of a 30 june deadline. switzerland and austria have both opened investigations into the hacks. the us, uk, france, germany, russia and china are seeking a final agreement to curtail iran's nuclear programme in exchange for sanctions relief. they fear iran wants to build a nuclear bomb - something iran strongly denies. israel is not a party to the negotiations although it feels particularly threatened by the possibility of a nuclear-armed iran. in march, the wall street journal reported concerns by us officials that israel had been spying on the behind-closed-doors talks. at the time, israel denied the claims it had been spying. kaspersky, and an american security firm, symantec, believe the so-called duqu 2.0 software was employed to gather information. the computer-virus  infects computers across a network and is difficult to detect. kaspersky said on wednesday that its own systems had recently been compromised by hackers but the intrusion had been detected at an early stage.  security experts had previously speculated that duqu may have been created by israel or the us. "the international reports of israeli involvement in the matter are baseless," said tzipi hotovely, israel's deputy foreign minister. "what is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an iranian nuclear umbrella." karl-heinz grundboeck, a spokesman for austria's interior ministry, told afp investigations in vienna were focused on the palais coburg hotel, where talks took place in july last year. switzerland's attorney general has also opened an investigation, although it is not known which swiss hotels are affected. police have seized computers in switzerland. as well as vienna, negotiations have been held in the swiss cities of geneva, lausanne and montreux, and in germany. patients are no longer being diverted away from accident and emergency units following the cyber attack, nhs england says. when the  computer-virus  struck on friday 47 trusts were affected and seven had to close their doors in a&e to ambulances.  some routine surgery and gp appointments were also cancelled across the nhs in the aftermath.  services are returning to normal, but some places are still having problems. the  ransomware  program demanded a payment worth £230 to unlock the affected computers.  hackers wanted their payment in the virtual currency bitcoin, which is harder to trace. how did the attack start?is my computer at risk?cyber-attack a 'wake-up call'the nhs inquest begins at the time prime minister theresa may said it was not an attack targeted at the nhs. she said it was an international attack with a number of countries and organisations affected. national incident director dr anne rainsberry said: "patients are no longer being diverted away from hospital accident and emergency units and, while there is still some disruption in a small number of areas, most patients are being treated as normal. "we are grateful for the hard work of staff at trusts and gp practices who are still suffering it issues but have found ways to work around this, as well as the patience of people who have been affected." a school paid out £1,500 in ransom money after it fell victim to a cyber-attack, the bbc has learned. durham sixth form centre was hit in the run-up to exams in april 2017 when a  computer-virus   encryption  college files which contained students' work. the county durham school confirmed it had made the payment and that it had informed police about the hack. durham police has not commented on the case, but a spokesman said it would not recommend a ransom be paid.  phil butler, a former police officer and cyber-crime expert at roxburgh forensics, said it was "madness" the payout was made by the school, which had responded to a freedom of information request from bbc newcastle. he said: "you're exposing yourself to a whole world of pain, becoming an easy target for future attacks, and not only that you're encouraging the criminality, actually potentially facilitating money laundering."  student tommy davis said his grade in his it a-level suffered because his coursework was never recovered. "they tried to decrypt it but they were never able to, so basically all the it coursework i left over there to get marked was gone," he said.  "so i didn't get the marks i'd actually done work for." lewis russ, 19, was about to take his a-levels when the attack happened. mr russ said: "rumours started going round to say we've been hacked and they've taken all of our files, which was quite alarming considering the fact that i took lots of subjects which had literally all my work on the computers." n korea blamed for global cyber-attack ransomware  'here to stay', warns googlecyber-attack: is my computer at risk? his work was recovered and he is now studying at northumbria university. the school has not confirmed the source of the attack, but it happened at the same time as the global  ransomware  cyber-attack on businesses and banks across the world, as well as the nhs. in relation to that, mr butler said: "we weren't dealing with computer nerds sat in a dark bedroom somewhere.  "the usa department of homeland security believe north korea was behind this attack, so it was a state-sponsored terrorist attack upon the western world essentially so it wasn't just the school that was affected. it was a really serious attack." durham county council has refused to comment on the school's case as it manages its own it system. the bbc's weekly the boss series profiles different business leaders from around the world. this week we speak to marcin kleczynski, chief executive and co-founder of us antivirus software company  malware bytes. a lot of entrepreneurs have "a moment". a moment that makes them realise they're on to something.  for marcin kleczynski it came while he was discreetly working on his antivirus software business from his student digs. his start-up company  malware bytes was less than a year old back in late 2008, but already gaining a good reputation in the cyber security world. marcin, then only 18, was just about managing to juggle running his start-up with participating in student life at the university of illinois when he hit a snag. "i was having some real trouble analysing the latest  computer-virus , when all of a sudden i get a white page on my screen that says 'you've been banned from the school network due to malicious activity on your desktop'," he says. "they'd obviously detected that i had a computer-virus  on my computer, but didn't realise it was deliberate. so i call the university it helpline, and they send a kid, no older than me. he sits down at my computer and looks at it and says 'boy you've really screwed this thing up'. "then, right in front of me, he logs onto my website and downloads  malware bytes. "i didn't say anything, i stood behind him and watched him fix my computer with my software to get me back online. he left never knowing who i was, but to this day i love that moment." by the time marcin graduated with a degree in computer science in 2012, he had quietly grown  malware bytes into a business earning a few million dollars a year. all without any of his lecturers having any idea what was taking up his time, and pushing his grades down. today the company has an annual turnover of more than $126m, and millions of customers around the world. born in poland in 1989, marcin moved to the us with his family when he was three, settling in chicago. as a gaming-obsessed teenager, he'd accidentally got a computer-virus  when he was 14, and learned everything he needed to know about computer bugs from internet forums and a "for dummies" book. formally launching  malware bytes in january 2008 when he was just 18, it grew quickly, and he decided that starting university in september of that year would just slow him down. his mother had other thoughts. "the business was becoming real, and so i went sheepishly to my mum and said 'i don't think i'm going to go to school'," says marcin. "fifteen seconds later we were packing my stuff and i was going to school." what made mrs kleczynski initially more alarmed was that her teenage son had launched the business with a man in his 30s called bruce harrison. marcin and bruce had been writing software together for more than a year, after they first started talking on anti-virus forums. "here's this 17-year-old kid... he's this 35-year-old man. imagine telling your mum?..." says marcin. more the boss features: three months after i was paralysed, i was back at work'i got wiped out, but i was determined to make it back'how rude service inspired a multi-million euro firmbulletproof coffee: would you add butter to your brew? marcin and bruce hadn't actually met in person at the time. bruce was a computer repairman in massachusetts, and marcin was at home in chicago. they didn't in fact see each other in the flesh until  malware bytes was more than 12 months old. "we didn't meet until we made our first million about a year after we launched the product," says marcin. "even that was kind of anti-climatic. it was just, 'hey, bruce!' - we had a handshake and moved on."  today bruce, who is head of research, still lives and works on the us east coast, while marcin is based in the head office in silicon valley. the company now has more than 750 employees, and overseas offices in the republic of ireland, singapore and estonia. since 2014 it has secured $80m of investment funding.  malware bytes says its software now performs 187 million computer-virus  scans every month for individuals and businesses, and is installed more than 247,000 times every day. like many antivirus companies it operates a "freemium" business model - the basic version is free, but you can then pay for more advanced protection. while the company has consistently grown strongly, marcin has learned some hard lessons along the way. the most difficult time was navigating the business through an almost catastrophic period in 2014 where the product glitched on a huge scale. "we had a false positive which means we detected a piece of  malware  that wasn't actually malicious at all," he says. "our software ended up mistakenly bringing down hundreds of thousands of computers. we had 911 emergency centres go down, hospitals go down, it was bad. this has happened to every anti-virus company, by the way, but these mistakes can be company killing because you lose trust.  "but we fixed it and got through it. even today, the system that we created to prevent this from happening again is called 'the  malware bytes extinction prevention system' - our engineers have a great sense of humour."  carl gottlieb, a cyber security podcaster, says that despite operating in the "notoriously hostile" antivirus industry " malware bytes is thriving". "with so many competing vendors, brand awareness is key, and that step [which  malware bytes took] to offer a free product years ago is paying dividends, with so many customers knowing the name and already using it in their homes. what marcin and his team have achieved is impressive to see." still only 29, marcin says his young age has been an advantage. he encourages other budding teen entrepreneurs to start their own business. "you've heard my story, i started the company when i was living with my parents," he says. "and then even at college, it was all paid for on a student loan, so i was getting fed. if you're in college now, instead of going out and getting drunk with your friends, maybe take one night a week just to see if there's anything you want to work on personally." he admits that his university years were harder than his friends', that he barely passed his degree, and his social life no doubt suffered. however, he's glad his mum forced him to go. "for one thing, i met my wife there," he says. a  computer-virus  that can spread via wi-fi like a "common cold" has been created by researchers in liverpool. in densely populated areas with lots of wi-fi networks, the computer-virus  can go from network to network finding weaknesses. once in control of a wi-fi access point, it leaves computers on the network extremely vulnerable. the team's lead researcher told the bbc it was working on software to prevent such attacks being possible. "rather than rely on people to use strong passwords, you want to integrate intrusion detection systems to the access points," said alan marshall, professor of communication networks at the university of liverpool. he would not go into detail about the methods in order to prevent the attack being used on real victims but said a proof-of-concept attack had been developed at the university. the computer-virus , dubbed chameleon, seeks out wi-fi access points - devices that transmit the wi-fi signal, found in many homes - that have not had their admin password changed. this password is different from the one used to log on to the wi-fi network itself, and is often left unchanged from the default setting. once an access point is under a hacker's control, new firmware can be installed. "so it's now under our control," explained prof marshall. "once you do that you can then do other things with it. you can recover passwords, steal data - anything you want." but it is the next step of the computer-virus  that is most unusual. once installed on one access point, the computer-virus  can - without being controlled by a human - automatically seek out other vulnerable access points, taking them over as and when they are found. prof marshall told the bbc that this was unlikely to be a threat to big business wi-fi networks, which should have enhanced security in place. however, networks in homes, or at small premises like coffee shops, are typically found with less stringent protection measures in place. now that his team has demonstrated the threat, prof marshall said attention would turn to creating a product that could be installed in wi-fi access points to prevent this kind of hijacking - without requiring the user to take responsibility. follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc the herald leads with nicola sturgeon "demanding" a place at the brexit negotiation table if the snp win a majority of scottish seats at the general election. the first minister also features on the front page of the scotsman, which says she has admitted scotland's education system "must do better". the paper leads with public bodies across scotland being placed "on alert" amid fears of a fresh wave of cyber-attacks. the daily record says a premature baby was saved when two paramedics raced her mum to hospital "defying a warning that it was full". the scottish sun features a hearts fan who claims he was forced to quit his job after "pranking" hibs boss neil lennon as they posed for a picture. the national says nicola sturgeon has accused prime minister theresa may of being scared to take part in a televised debate ahead of the general election. the scottish daily express leads with the prime minister promising a "revolutionary vote-winning package of workers' rights". the scottish daily mail says the uk is on "high alert" amid fears the  computer-virus  that hit the nhs could strike again. the i says nicola sturgeon has admitted that the literacy and numeracy skills of scotland's children must improve. the daily star says a proposed move to take footballer wayne rooney from manchester united to china could be in jeopardy amid claims that he lost £500,000 at a casino. the aberdeenshire edition of the press and journal leads with news of a £35m boost "which could save 70 north sea oil jobs". the front page of tthe courier's dundee edition is given over to a picture which it says demonstrates the devastating effects of drugs in the city. the russian military was directly behind a "malicious" cyber-attack on ukraine that spread globally last year, the us and britain have said. the white house said june's notpetya  ransomware  attack caused billions of dollars in damage across europe, asia, and the americas. uk defence secretary gavin williamson said russia was "ripping up the rule book" and the uk would respond. moscow denies being behind the attack, calling such claims "russophobic".  ransomware , which threatens to delete the target's files unless they pay a ransom, is regarded as the fastest growing form of  computer-virus . defence secretary warns of russian plotuk security chief blames russia for hacksfacebook in new russian brexit vote probemay accuses putin of election meddling experts believe about 2,000 notpetya attacks were launched, mainly aimed at ukraine. the country ukraine has been locked in a simmering conflict with russian-backed separatists since moscow annexed crimea in 2014. in the notpetya attack, businesses with strong trade links with ukraine, such as the uk's reckitt benckiser, dutch delivery firm tnt and danish shipping giant maersk were affected. the attack is estimated to have cost companies more than $1.2bn (£850m). reckitt benckiser - maker of dettol, durex and strepsils - said the attack disrupted its manufacturing output and shipping capacity for up to two months.  on thursday the uk government took the unusual step of publicly accusing the russia military of being behind the attack. "the uk and its allies will not tolerate malicious cyber activity," the foreign office said in a statement. later, the white house also pointed the finger at russia. "in june 2017, the russian military launched the most destructive and costly cyber attack in history," a statement said. "this was also a reckless and indiscriminate cyber attack that will be met with international consequences." russia, however, said the claims were "groundless" and that russian businesses were among those whose systems were affected. "it's not more than a continuation of the russophobic campaign," kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said. bitcoin gobbling iceland energy supplies11 cities most likely to run out of drinking watertax haven firms own 23,000 uk properties foreign office minister lord ahmad of wimbledon said: "the uk government judges that the russian government, specifically the russian military, was responsible for the destructive notpetya cyber attack." "its reckless release disrupted organisations across europe costing hundreds of millions of pounds. "we call upon russia to be the responsible member of the international community it claims to be rather then secretly trying to undermine it." mr williamson warned that the west had "entered a new era of warfare, witnessing a destructive and deadly mix of conventional military might and malicious cyber attacks".  prime minister theresa may accused russian president vladimir putin in november of attempting to "sow discord" in the west by meddling in elections, spreading misinformation and engaging in cyber warfare. latvia is resisting calls to extradite a man the us alleges wrote a  computer-virus  used to steal millions. in january, latvian deniss calovskis was named by the us as one of the creators of the gozi computer-virus . latvian courts have twice rejected mr calovskis' appeal to prevent himself being extradited, but the country's foreign minister opposes the move. he said the potential jail term mr calovskis faced was too severe for the crimes he is alleged to have committed. the us began its campaign to extradite two of the three men alleged to have used gozi soon after publicly accusing the trio of infecting more than one million computers with the computer-virus  and stealing data that was then used to plunder bank accounts.  they ran a "modern-day bank robbery ring, that required neither a gun or a mask", said us attorney preet bharara in january. romanian mihai ionut paunescu and russian national nikita kuzmin were named as the co-creators of gozi. mr kuzmin is already in jail in the us following his arrest in may 2011 on separate hacking and fraud charges. extradition proceedings against mr paunescu are currently on hold pending an appeal. in a message posted to the website of latvia's foreign ministry, minister edgars rinkevics said latvian law guaranteed that people who broke the law suffered only "proportionate punishment".  mr rinkevics said the us sought a jail term for mr calovskis that exceeded 60 years.  while he could not take a view on whether mr calovskis broke the law or not, the jail term amounted to an effective life sentence, he wrote.  "in my view, such a penalty is disproportionate to the amount, and so far no-one has been able to conclusively dispel my fears that it might be otherwise," he said. in addition, he said, there were questions over whether any of the crimes mr calovskis is alleged to have committed actually took place on us soil. the trans-national nature of much cyber crime would make it hard to prove his involvement, wrote mr rinkevics. finally, said the minister, if mr calovskis was found guilty there was no reason why he could not serve a sentence for his crimes in his native latvia.  security analyst graham cluley said gozi was a very successful  spyware  that pilfered huge sums from bank accounts. "if you caught a criminal who stole sums like that in traditional bank robberies, you would expect them to have the book thrown at them and wouldn't be surprised if they ended up with a serious criminal sentence," he said. "it's important to see more co-operation internationally to bring internet criminals to justice, and a consistency in the treatment and sentencing of convicted hackers," he added.  "it's necessary when investigations cross national boundaries that proper legal processes are followed, which can mean it takes a lot of time and effort to get a result," said mr cluley. leading figures in two of scotland's biggest mosques have been linked to an organisation responsible for terrorist atrocities in pakistan, according to the herald. the scottish sun leads with the death of teenager dione melville at a party, with claims that she died after taking a mystery pill. the same story features on the front page of the daily record, as well as a financial expert claiming rangers players could be forced to pay back millions of pounds after george osborne targeted ebts in the budget. the scottish daily mail says snp leader nicola sturgeon is under pressure from political rivals to ditch the party's "flawed" named person plan. a  computer-virus  has forced the closure of the national records of scotland genealogy service - blocking access to details of births, deaths and marriages - according to the scotsman. the national says the solidarity party is "in turmoil" over accusations that party leader tommy sheridan ignored claims of sexual harassment of female party workers. the times features an investigation which it claims reveals scottish football chiefs have secretly opposed new laws to give fans more say in how clubs are run. the press and journal's highlands and islands edition leads with a woman being killed in a two-car crash on the a9 at dalwhinnie. the nhs will be banned from buying fax machines from next month - and has been told by the government to phase out the machines entirely by 31 march 2020.  in july, the royal college of surgeons revealed nearly 9,000 fax machines were in use across the nhs in england. the department of health said a change to more modern communication methods was needed to improve patient safety and cyber security. an rcs spokesman said they supported the government's decision. in place of fax machines, the department of health said secure email should be used. nhs still reliant on 'archaic' fax machinesoxford university hospitals trust scraps fax machineswhy is hi-tech japan using cassette tapes and faxes? richard kerr, who is the chair of the rcs's commission on the future of surgery, said the continued use of the outdated technology by the nhs was "absurd". he added it was "crucial" that the health service invested in "better ways of communicating the vast amount of patient information that is going to be generated" in the future. the group's report from earlier this year found the use of fax machines was most common at the newcastle upon tyne nhs trust, which still relied on 603 machines. three-quarters of the trusts in england replied to the survey - 95 in total. ten trusts said that they did not own any fax machines, but four in ten reported more than 100 in use. rebecca mcintyre from manchester, who works as a cognitive behavioural therapist, said fax machines are "a continued risk to the confidentiality and safeguarding of patients". "you would not believe the palaver we have in the work place trying to communicate important documents to services (referrals etc)," she said.  "we constantly receive faxes meant for other places in error but this is never reported." meanwhile, taz, from doncaster, works in a pharmacy and said discharge notes, emergency documents and out-of-hours services "all are stuck in the dark ages". "i hope this is just the start of many changes," he said. "the amount of time wasted and potential errors that exist from not using technology is shocking and often it's the patients that suffer. "my next hope is that hand written prescriptions are scrapped completely and we use tablets to send them electronically for patients like most gps have been doing for years." malicious fax leaves firms open to attackwhy the fax machine isn't quite dead yet however, tim owen. from bolton, who works in blood services, asked: "so what happens when a  computer-virus  attacks a hospital's it infrastructure, as happened recently?  "during the  ransomware  attack of 2017 our 'out-dated, redundant' piece of equipment ensured that blood products, not routinely held in our on-site blood bank, could be ordered without delay and therefore not compromising patient safety." one gp in the midlands said they currently rely on a fax machine for requesting x-rays at local hospitals because of an ongoing it problem which has not been fixed. meanwhile, outside of the nhs, nina mowbray, from northampton, works for one of the top 10 accountancy firms where she said they still fax documents to hm revenue and customs. "we could email but we need to have this set up first which means we have to get formal approval from a director/partner which we don't do," she said. "it does seem very outdated." and joseph vincent, from macclesfield, said he still uses his fax machine to communicate with his brother, who lives in a remote part of scotland. "the internet is slow there and sometimes we send funny messages to each other using a fax machine. the sound it makes is really satisfying although it is a bit of a running gag between us." the first "facsimile" machine was invented in 1842 by scotsman alexander bainbain's invention worked by scanning a message written with special ink on a metallic surface. this picked up the electrical impression of the original and a telegraph circuit could be used to transmit itby the beginning of the 20th century, fax machines were being used commercially by organisations such as newspapersafter technological improvements by japanese companies, fax machines became widespread in the 1970s and 1980sthe technology reached its peak around the end of the 20th century, and was then gradually replaced by more modern methods of communication actress margot kidder, best known for her role as lois lane in superman, has died aged 69. a funeral home in livingston, montana, where the actress lived, said kidder died at her home on sunday. she rose to fame starring alongside christopher reeve in the superman films of the 1970s and 1980s. the canadian-born actress acquired american citizenship in 2005, and became a political and women's rights activist alongside her acting. the cause of her death is not yet known. kidder starred alongside reeve in the 1978 film superman and its sequels, as well as horror classics black christmas and the amityville horror. the actress was also an outspoken critic of the gulf war, of fracking by energy companies, and was at times a vocal supporter of democratic party candidates. after settling in the us state of montana, she became a supporter of montana women for, a non-profit organisation which describes its goals as the "participation and empowerment of women in our democracy through education and advocacy on critical issues". as an activist, she was arrested in 2011 while taking part in a protest at the white house against the keystone xl pipeline, which remains controversial today. kidder also suffered from mental health problems, which resulted in her high-profile disappearance for several days in 1996. in an interview with people magazine later that year, she referred to her disappearance as "the most public freak-out in history". while working on her memoirs, a  computer-virus  destroyed all of her work, she told the magazine - something she concluded was deliberate, and involved her former husband and the cia. she was eventually found safe, and would talk openly about her experience of manic episodes and of depression in the years ahead, raising awareness about bipolar disorder while advocating the use of alternative medicine as a treatment. on social media, film and superhero fans paid tribute to the actress. dc comics, publisher of the superman comic books, said kidder was "the lois lane so many of us grew up with". eric goldman, editor at rival comic book maker marvel, said kidder "made sure my generation knew just how awesome lois lane was" - a sentiment echoed by famed comic book writer mark millar, who said she was "my lois lane". teri hatcher, who played lois lane in the 1990s tv show lois & clark: the new adventures of superman, wrote that it had been "a privilege" to step into kidder's role - while her co-star dean cain also tweeted his condolences. english actress sarah douglas - who played supervillain ursa, famously sucker-punched by the plucky lane - tweeted that kidder had been "a joy to be around". some fans recalled the landmark cinematic moments from the original 1978 superman film, while others applauded the actress' open discussion of mental health issues at a time when it was unpopular to make such things public. actor cameron cuffe, currently starring in superman spin-off tv series krypton, wrote: "on screen there are few who have brought a legend to life in the same way margot kidder did. as a person there are few who have been as honest and brave when it came to being open about mental health." "a pioneer and inspiration always." kidder married and divorced three times. she is survived by her only child, maggie, and two grandchildren. a technology expert found a hidden kill-switch among the computer code in the computer-virus  that hit organisations around the world on friday. the expert - from the  malware  tech blog - told the bbc's newshour programme how he stumbed on the fix. accusations the us and israel jointly created the  computer-virus  flame have been printed by the washington post newspaper. it quoted unnamed "western officials with knowledge of the effort"  
          
 
          as its sources
.
         the powerful  malware  was discovered after the un noticed data disappearing from pcs in the middle east. the post said the us national security agency, the cia and israel's military had collaborated on the project. it had "intended to slow iran's nuclear program, reduce the pressure for a conventional military attack and extend the timetable for diplomacy and sanctions", the newspaper said.  reuters subsequently reported  
          
 
          that current and former western national security officials
 had told the news agency the us had been involved in making the computer-virus .
         the bbc has been unable to confirm or disprove the allegations. flame is thought to have been first noticed when iran's servers were taken offline in april following a  malware  attack on key oil terminals. a later report by anti-virus company kaspersky labs said there had been 189 attacks in iran, 98 in israel and palestine, and 32 in sudan.  a "former high-ranking us intelligence official", who it said had spoken on the condition of anonymity, told the washington post: "[flame] is about preparing the battlefield for another type of covert action. "cyber-collection against the iranian programme is way further down the road than this." iran has said it is now able to defend itself against the  malware  and clean up infected pcs . but the attacks could lead the country to develop its own sophisticated cyber-capabilities, mark phillips, a research fellow at defence think tank the royal united services institute (rusi), told bbc news. "if it did originate from the us and/or israel, iran is going to feel under siege as a result of a number of attempts - a previous one was stuxnet - and will seek to improve its cyber-defences," he said. "the better you are at detecting cyber-actions, the better you are at infiltrating others.  "this cyber-onslaught that iran has been facing from stuxnet through to flame is actually helping it to become a really serious cyber-power in its own right, which would not have been an intended effect of whoever developed flame." security experts call flame one of the most complex threats ever seen, suggesting a nation state rather than individual hackers are likely to have been behind its development. "the reason [sources] may want to stay anonymous is because of the sensitive nature of technologies and capabilities involved," said mr phillips. "we're probably stuck with a situation where we'll only have this speculation for a foreseeable future." the israeli embassy in london declined to comment. a  computer-virus  has caused the suspension of public internet access at every library in portsmouth. the service will be unavailable for about two weeks while it staff try to fix the network of library computers. lindy elliott, portsmouth library services manager, said the measure was needed to protect the security and personal data of users. portsmouth city council apologised for the inconvenience and said the service would restart as soon as possible. norfolk is a dating scams hotspot, surrey succumbs to investment fraud and west and mid-wales suffers cold calling computer cons, according to data from uk cyber-crime centre action fraud. consumer watchdog which? has collated the data, which came via a freedom of information request and it wants the government to do more to tackle the problem. a recent office of national statistics survey suggested there are 5.4 million fraud and computer misuse cases a year. other findings include: northamptonshire residents are most likely to report suffering online shopping and auction scams - it affected 21.6 victims per 10,000 compared to 16.9 nationally those living in dorset fall for  computer-virus ,  malware  and  spyware  fraud with 15,561 reports from 2014 to 2016 warwickshire is a victim of retail fraud with 30,944 in the same timeframe. london is the fraud capital of a range of scams, including 16,249 reports of social media hacking which said that it could not explain why certain frauds occur more in some areas rather than others, partly because so many fraud cases go unreported so the data is incomplete. there were 264,204 frauds reported to action fraud in 2016 but this is likely to be a fraction of those that occur. which's report did suggest that certain demographics are targeted by different scams  - so, for example, fake computer fixes tend to focus on elderly women living in rural areas. members of the public can click on an interactive map to find out the most commonly occurring fraud in their county. dating fraud: the woman 'lovebombed' out of £300,000online dating fraud victim numbers at record highcompany directors targeted by identity fraudsters gareth shaw, which? money expert, thinks there is little doubt that online fraud is on the rise: "this research highlights how reported fraud in the uk is on the increase and the kinds of scams you are most likely to fall victim to will depend on where you live. "these criminals are constantly finding new ways to rip us off and those tackling fraud should be upping their game. the government needs to set out an ambitious agenda to tackle fraud, while law enforcement agencies need to be working harder to identify and protect the people most at risk from fraud."   commander dave clark, city of london police, national co-ordinator for economic crime said: "fraud and cyber crime are global problems with many of the offenders targeting uk citizens from overseas," "law enforcement is not the single solution to this phenomenon. the solution requires every individual, business and organisation to take responsibility to ensure they take steps to protect themselves and others." officials in iran say they have found a  computer-virus  designed to target the country's government institutions. the  malware  - dubbed stars - was capable of inflicting minor damage, according to the head of iran's civil defence organisation. if the reports are accurate, it would be the second major attack in a year. the recently discovered stuxnet worm is thought to have been created to take control of equipment used in iran's nuclear programme. it would take some time to establish stars' intended purpose, said gholam reza jalali, military head of the iranian passive defence organisation. "the stars computer-virus  has been presented to the laboratory but is still being investigated," he said. "no definite final conclusions have been reached." mr jalali revealed that the computer-virus  could have been "mistaken for executive files of governmental organisations", but gave no indication about who might be behind the attack. last week, the same official suggested that stuxnet was the work of the united states and warned that it could have caused large-scale accidents and loss of life. stuxnet first came to light in july 2010.  analysis by security firm symantec showed that, while it could be transmitted via the internet, it was designed to infect specific types of industrial controllers. the machinery in question was used to control centrifuges at iran's natanz uranium enrichment facility. most experts who have looked at the case agree, given the scale and complexity of stuxnet, that a foreign state was probably behind its development. iranian officials have previously pointed the finger at the us and israel, although no firm evidence has been produced. more than a fifth of consumers have had personal details stolen and their accounts used to make purchases, according to a survey by deloitte. just under half of respondents said they often felt they were being targeted by cyber-criminals.  just under 40% had had personal data stolen or deleted because of a  computer-virus  or  malware , up from 26% in 2013.  consumer trust in companies storing personal data has slipped to 23% of respondents, down from 29%. more than half (53%) did not know the detail of the personal data that had been collected by organisations, up from 37% in 2013.  the deloitte survey also found companies that failed to safeguard data were more likely to lose custom than those which raised prices. simon borwick, director in the cyber risk services team at deloitte, said: "the volume and value of data available online means that consumers are now more exposed than ever before.  "many organisations are struggling to prepare themselves to deal with the wide range of different cyber attacks. cyber security has moved beyond simply being an it issue; it is now a business-wide risk which requires immediate attention at the highest level." the institute of directors warned last month that attacks on british businesses "happen constantly", but only serious breaches such as the attack that affected telecoms company talk talk made the headlines. the attack on talk talk has hit both the company's reputation and its share price, which has fallen by almost 25% this year. a latvian man has pleaded guilty to creating  malware  that stole millions of dollars from online bank accounts.  deniss calovskis admitted in a new york court hearing that he had been hired to write part of the gozi  computer-virus . the code calovskis wrote changed banking websites and helped make the computer-virus  more effective.  gozi was first found in 2007 but remained active for years and is thought to have infected more than one million computers worldwide. "i knew what i was doing was against the law," calovskis said in court, answering charges of conspiring to commit computer intrusion.  calovskis was extradited to the us from latvia in february after lengthy negotiations between the two nations over the potential sentence he would serve.  latvian government officials initially resisted calls to hand over calovskis, saying us plans to sentence him to more than 60 years in jail did not represent "proportionate punishment".  a plea agreement on sentencing reached with lawyers representing calovskis means he will not appeal against any jail sentence of two years or less.  it is not clear whether the 10 months calovskis spent in jail in latvia during the extradition row will count as part of the sentence he eventually receives.  he is scheduled to be sentenced on 14 december. two other men have been arrested in connection with the creation and administration of gozi. russian national nikita kuzmin is in jail in the us following his arrest in may 2011 on separate hacking and fraud charges.  extradition proceedings against romanian mihai ionut paunescu are currently on hold pending an appeal. a new type of computer  malware , described as "the most sophisticated cyberweapon yet unleashed", has been uncovered in computers in the middle east. antivirus researchers and software manufacturers in russia, hungary and ireland uncovered worm.win32.flame.they also believe it may have infected machines in europe.dr. boldizsár bencsáth, from the laboratory of cryptography and systems at budapest university, says the  computer-virus  was most likely to be a state-sponsored cyberweapon, used as a tool for international espionage. a computer hacker known as iserdo has been arrested in slovenia. the 23-year-old is believed to have written the program behind the mariposa computer-virus , also known as butterfly.  the  malicious-bot , one of the world's largest, was dismantled earlier this year after infecting 12.7 million computers.  it was designed to steal personal financial details and was also found in the pcs of banks and major companies. officials from around the world have been chasing the cyber criminals. in december 2009, three people believed to have been running it were arrested in spain.  "to use an analogy here, as opposed to arresting the guy who broke into your home, we've arrested the guy that gave him the crowbar, the map and the best houses in the neighbourhood," jeffrey troy, deputy assistant director for the fbi cyber division told associated press.  malicious-bot s are networks of computers with  malware  installed. this puts them under the control of cyber criminals without the knowledge of individual owners.  they can send spam e-mail from the host's machine or search for information such as credit card details and send them back to their creator. they also send replica programmes to other computers, sometimes via the e-mail of the host. security expert rik ferguson told the bbc that the mariposa  malicious-bot  had got out of control. "they guys behind it said it was more successful than they had intended to be," he said. "as is the case with most  malicious-bot s, the more widespread they are the more likely they are to be discovered. they were a victim of their own success." mr ferguson, senior security adviser at trend micro, added that while it was not unusual for a  malicious-bot  to infect hundreds of thousands of computers, one infecting several million was rare. nobody has yet been arrested in connection with the conficker worm, a similar computer-virus  which is currently running on 6 million windows pcs and is believed to peaked at up to 12 million, he said. while the core group behind a particular  malicious-bot  is generally quite small, there is a whole industry of people offering "cyber crime services" such as tool kit building and program writing, he added. "the thing with the underground economy is that it's full of niche vendors and players, it mirrors legitimate business. there's a lot of competition - it's not unusual to see  malware  designed to remove other  malware , just so that it can take over." the it systems of three us hospitals have been infected with  ransomware , which  encryption  vital files and demands money to unlock them. the systems, at kentucky methodist hospital, chino valley medical center and desert valley hospital, california, are now running normally again. none of the hospitals is believed to have paid the ransom. and the cases are now being investigated by the fbi. the kentucky methodist hospital had to shut down all of its desktop computers and activate a back-up system. a message on its homepage said: "methodist hospital is currently working in an internal state of emergency due to a  computer-virus  that has limited our use of electronic web-based services.  "we are currently working to resolve this issue, until then we will have limited access to web-based services and electronic communications." it later said no patient data or care had been affected.  fred ortega, a spokesman for prime healthcare services, which owns chino valley medical center and desert valley hospital, said: "it did cause significant disruptions of our it systems.  "however, most of the systems and the critical infrastructure has been brought back online." the attack comes weeks after it was revealed hollywood presbyterian medical centre in los angeles had been attacked by  ransomware .  in that case, it paid $17,000 to get access to files back. kentucky methodist hospital information systems director jamie reid named the  malware  involved as locky, a new bug that  encryption  files, documents and images and renames them with the extension .locky. the most common way locky gets itself on machines is via a spam email with an attached document that looks like nonsense and advises readers to enable macros "if the data encoding is incorrect". once the  malware  is downloaded, it sends a message to desktops with instructions about how users can pay to have files unlocked. in november, a report from intel's mcafee labs said the number of  ransomware  attacks was expected to grow in 2016. security expert brian krebs said: "it's a fair bet that as  ransomware  attacks and attackers mature, these schemes will slowly become more targeted. "i also worry that these more deliberate attackers will take a bit more time to discern how much the data they've  encryption  is really worth, and precisely how much the victim might be willing to pay to get it back." a gang of fraudsters who posted fake job adverts online has been jailed.the adverts for work in firms like harrods and argos were posted on sites like gumtree and blue arrow.  the gang sent out a  computer-virus  to applicants that copied their bank details.   the scam only came to light when applicants complained directly to harrods.   adjibola akinlabi, 26, damilare oduwole, also 26, and michael awosile, 27, who are all living in south london, were each jailed for seven years. malware  writer tyrone ellis, 27, was jailed for four and a half years, while temitope araoye, 29, was given a two-year prison sentence.nadine windley, 26, who pleaded guilty to using her position as an employee of santander bank to provide the gang with customer account data, was handed a two-year suspended sentence.babatunde akinlabi, 28, who previously pleaded guilty to a 2008 offence of fraud with his brother adjibola after they used illegally obtained bank details to obtain cash from online bank accounts, will be sentenced on 6 december.bbc london's tarah welsh spoke to frank tutty from the national crime agency and a victim. president obama has granted changes to the prison sentences of 209 people, in the days before he leaves office. he also pardoned 64 others, in one of his final acts as us president.  one of the most controversial releases is that of chelsea manning, the transgender us army private who leaked confidential messages to wikileaks. neither a pardon (doing away with a conviction) nor a commutation (changing a sentence) is an acceptance of innocence. they're granted when convicted criminals are believed to have fulfilled their debt to society, or are seen as deserving for some reason. he was convicted of murdering two taxi drivers while he was a soldier in 1989 and has been on death row ever since.   his offences included pre-mediated murder, attempted murder and armed robbery. he was one of six military personnel facing the death penalty in the us. loving's death sentence has been commuted to life imprisonment with some conditions. the baseball hall of famer was fined and given two years' probation in 1996 for failing to pay taxes. it was the earnings he made on sports memorabilia and signing autographs. he's been pardoned. the nightclub boss used to own studio 54 in new york (it was the place to be in 70s). he and co-founder steve rubell did time for tax evasion. he's also been pardoned.  the former us marine general pleaded guilty to falsely denying he was the source of leaking classified information. the leak involved a  computer-virus  that disabled equipment iranians were using to enrich uranium. he's been pardoned. the 74-year-old was arrested in 1986 after appearing on the fbi's most wanted list. he was part of the armed forces of national liberation of puerto rico (faln), an underground organisation that fought for the independence of puerto rico. his crimes included carrying carrying firearms during violent crimes and moving explosives with intent to kill, injure and destroy property. lopez should now be released in may and plans to return to puerto rico. the 48-year-old was sentenced to death for his role in murder and drug trafficking in 2000.  during the trial he maintained that officers who questioned him never told him he had a right to an attorney or a right to remain silent. his attorneys said he never learned to read or write in any language. anti-death penalty advocates say he is intellectually disabled and his execution would be unconstitutional. he's no longer sentenced to death. mr obama has commuted 1,385 sentences and issued 212 pardons, more than the total granted by the past 12 presidents combined. the white house tweeted a graph, showing that obama has commuted more sentences than other us presidents. in america, a pardon not only lifts the conviction and sentence but removes other penalties such as the bar on convicted felons sitting on federal juries, and state-level prohibitions on such things as voting or possession of firearms. a commutation means the sentence is changed but the restrictions outlined above remain. when donald trump assumes office, he won't be able to undo the pardons and commutations obama has put in place. find us on instagram at bbcnewsbeat and follow us on snapchat, search for bbc_newsbeat sending all children back to school - and freeing parents to go back to work - could trigger a second wave of coronavirus, warn researchers. ucl and the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine team said testing and tracing contacts of those with the computer-virus  might help prevent this. but the current test and trace system would need to be more effective. the study is the first to assess the extent of contact tracing that will be needed to prevent a second wave. it used computer models to see how the computer-virus  might spread as pupils returned to the classroom and their parents were freed from childcare and able return to work or other activities. the academics investigated the impact of the "phased return" strategy in england. they analysed what happens when reception, year 1 and year six go back at the start of june; followed by all primary school pupils in july; secondary pupils in year 10 and 12 having some contact in july and all secondary schools going back in september. the study showed the combined effect on pupils and parents would be enough to cause a second wave without an effective test and trace programme. this would happen around december 2020 and would be twice as big as the first peak, unless the government took other actions such as re-imposing lockdown. schools: when will children be returning?exercise: what are the guidelines on getting out?the r number: what it means and why it mattersair travellers: the new quarantine ruleslook-up tool: how many cases in your area? how test and trace works:  people with symptoms of cough, fever or loss of sense of smell or taste are testedif they are positive for coronavirus, they isolate for seven days and their household does so for 14 daysthey have to tell the nhs everyone they have come into close contact withthese contacts must also spend 14 days in quarantine the success of the scheme is dependent on how well the testing and the contact tracing goes.  the model suggested a second wave would be prevented if: 51% of people were being tested and 40% of their contacts tracedor if 43% of people were being tested and 80% of their contacts traced modelling is not a crystal ball and there is always uncertainty around any predictions. however, researchers are concerned england is not achieving those figures.  about 1,700 people are testing positive every day in hospitals, care homes and the wider community, while figures from the office for national statistics suggest there are 5,600 new infections a day in the community alone - and one public health england report suggests 17,000 infections per day. there is still no official data on the number of contacts being traced, but a report by the times (paywall) suggests it is less than 40%. "our concern from the data at the moment is test-trace-isolate is not reaching the coverage we think is the minimum," prof chris bonell, from the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine, told the bbc. "there is clearly a risk of a second pandemic wave… i'm worried. the r [rate of computer-virus  spread] is a bit below one [the point at which the number of new cases starts to take off again], but the incidence is high so it's precarious." dr jasmina panovska-griffiths, from ucl, said it would have been better to wait until test and trace was fully up and running before lifting lockdown.  "cases are not coming down as much as we wanted. i would caution against reopening schools when we are doing a lot of other interventions and we don't know the impact of them. "everything depends on control of transmission, there is the threat of a second pandemic wave." meanwhile, researchers at the university of warwick have also published modelling on the impact of reopening schools. it looked only at the impact of children mixing, not the society-wide effect of schools opening.  it found that halving the size of classes or focusing on getting younger children into school was less likely to push the r number above 1, the point at which the number of new cases starts to take off again.  secondary schools were deemed more risky, as older children come into contact with more people.  "if we reopen all schools it could push r above 1 in some regions," dr ed hill said. but he added: "decisions surrounding reopening of schools are a difficult trade-off between the epidemiological consequences and the needs of the children in terms of educational development." follow james on twitter almost 11,000 people had their computer hacked by a computer-virus  last year, giving cyber criminals access to personal data. the national crime agency is now warning people of the dangers of failing to protect electronic devices.mike sergeant reports. iran has confirmed it is having to remove nuclear fuel from the reactor at the bushehr power plant, the latest in a series of delays to hit the project. on friday, the international atomic energy agency (iaea) said it had new information on "possible military dimensions" to iran's nuclear plans, which iran says are purely peaceful. the iaea will supervise the unloading of fuel from bushehr, iran's nuclear envoy ali asghar soltanieh said.  iran began the bushehr project in 1976. iran's fars news agency says the fuel is being removed for "technical reasons". the fuel at bushehr is being provided by russia, which built the plant and whose engineers will carry out the unloading, under the supervision of the iaea.  "upon a demand from russia, which is responsible for completing the bushehr nuclear power plant, fuel assemblies from the core of the reactor will be unloaded for a period of time to carry out tests and take technical measurements," mr soltanieh said, according to the semi-official isna news agency.  the bbc's tehran correspondent, james reynolds, says diplomats suggest the entire core of the bushehr plant is being replaced - potentially a serious problem.  there has been some speculation that the stuxnet  computer-virus  may be responsible, our correspondent says.  analysts say stuxnet - which caused problems at another iranian enrichment facility last year - has been specially configured to damage motors commonly used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control.  some experts believe that the problems at bushehr call into question the safety and effectiveness of iran's nuclear facilities as a whole, our correspondent says.  the iaea report - obtained by the bbc and made available online by the institute for science and international security (isis) - says iran is "not implementing a number of its obligations." these include "clarification of the remaining outstanding issues which give rise to concerns about possible military dimensions to its nuclear programme". six world powers are negotiating with iran over its nuclear programme, and the country is subject to united nations security council sanctions over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment. enriched uranium can be used for civilian nuclear purposes, but also to build atomic bombs. high-risk medical technology has been found to be infected by  computer-virus es and  malware , health and security experts have said. they fear that the computer-virus  infections could become so severe that a patient may end up getting harmed. out-dated computer systems which were not able to be changed were to blame for the vulnerabilities, the experts said. one us hospital is said to be deleting computer-virus es from up to two machines a week. the warnings were given as part of a panel discussion in washington dc, as reported by technology review from the massachusetts institute of technology. mark olsen, chief information security officer at beth israel deaconess medical center in boston, said the hospital had 664 pieces of medical equipment running on old versions of windows. this means the equipment is affected by weaknesses which later releases of windows have since fixed. kevin fu, a leading expert in medical technology, explained that the machines were not updated because of fears that doing so would mean they were in breach of regulations put in place by the us food and drug administration (fda). the fda approve the use of technology by testing safety rather than security - meaning any potential exposure to cyberthreats is not considered. "i find this mind-boggling," mr fu told technology review. "conventional  malware  is rampant in hospitals because of medical devices using unpatched operating systems. there's little recourse for hospitals when a manufacturer refuses to allow [operating system] updates or security patches." there are also fears, the panel agreed, that medical devices could even end up being part of  malicious-bot s - large networks of hijacked computers that are often used to send out spam email. medical devices could be struck down by slow performance related to being infected, mr fu told the bbc. "imagine you have a heart monitor that's running windows and it gets infected by a  computer-virus  and slows down.  "this mere slowing down of the computer could cause the device to miss a sensor reading. it certainly raises an eyebrow. who's watching out for that?" he said that there is no evidence as yet that the  malware  is reaching medical machines as a result of being targeted by criminals.  instead, he said it was more likely to be "collateral damage" from conventional  malware  designed to infect normal pcs. "what we're finding is that software has brought tremendous benefit to medicine, but we've kind of forgotten that there's these inconvenient risks of software," he said. in the uk, the nhs faces similar challenges. "the need to implement security and privacy at the design of all systems, whether they're embedded or not is of paramount importance, particularly to the health industry," said raj samani, who worked in the health sector and is now chief technology officer for security specialists mcafee. a channel 4 investigation in 2008 discovered that nhs computers had been affected by more than 8,000 computer-virus es. another major cyber-attack could be imminent after friday's global hit that infected more than 125,000 computer systems, security experts have warned.  uk security researcher " malware tech", who helped to limit the  ransomware  attack, predicted "another one coming... quite likely on monday". the computer-virus , which took control of users' files, spread to 100 countries, including spain, france and russia. in england, 48 nhs trusts fell victim, as did 13 nhs bodies in scotland. some hospitals were forced to cancel procedures and appointments, as ambulances were directed to neighbouring hospitals free from the  computer-virus .  uk home secretary amber rudd said on saturday that the problem was largely resolved but that "there's always more" that could be done to protect against  computer-virus es. nhs trusts that appear to still be experiencing it difficulties are: st bartholomew's in london east and north hertfordshire trust james paget university hospitals trust, norfolk southport and ormskirk hospital nhs trust lincolnshire hospitals nhs trust york teaching hospitals nhs trustuniversity hospital of north midlands trust after taking computers over, the computer-virus  displayed messages demanding a payment of $300 (£230) in virtual currency bitcoin to unlock files and return them to the user.  bbc analysis of three accounts linked with the global attack suggests the hackers have already been paid the equivalent of £22,080.   malware tech, who wants to remain anonymous, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the computer-virus , which actually ended up halting it.  blogger halts  ransomware  'by accident'the  ransomware  causing chaosanalysis: how it started the 22-year-old told the bbc: "it's very important that people patch their systems now. "we have stopped this one, but there will be another one coming and it will not be stoppable by us.  "there's a lot of money in this. there's no reason for them to stop. it's not really much effort for them to change the code and then start over. "so there's a good chance they are going to do it... maybe not this weekend, but quite likely on monday morning." on sunday he warned hackers could upgrade the computer-virus  to remove the "kill switch" that helped to stop it. "version 1 of  ransomware pt was stoppable but version 2.0 will likely remove the flaw. you're only safe if you patch asap," he tweeted. fellow security researcher darien huss, from tech firm proofpoint, echoed  malware tech's view. "i highly suspect that, with the amount of coverage that this incident is getting, there are probably already people that are working to incorporate the exploit that was used for spreading," he said. he said his research experience on  targeted-threat s made him doubt a nation state was involved here.  "this attack was so simple and unsophisticated, that leads me to believe the people or person involved, even though they are quite capable, they're more along the lines of an amateur," he said. investigators are working to track down those responsible for the  ransomware  used on friday, known as wanna decryptor or  ransomware . the computer-virus  exploits a vulnerability in microsoft windows software, first identified by the us national security agency, experts have said.  europol described the cyber-attack as "unprecedented" and said its cyber-crime team was working with affected countries to "mitigate the threat and assist victims". oliver gower, of the uk's national crime agency, added: "cyber criminals may believe they are anonymous, but we will use all the tools at our disposal to bring them to justice." in the uk, critics said the government had known about the threat of a cyber-attack for some time, but hospitals had not made the right upgrades to protect themselves.  a security update - or patch - was released by microsoft in march to protect against the computer-virus , but it appears many nhs organisations had not applied it or were using an older version of the operating system no longer supported - namely windows xp. nhs digital said that 4.7% of devices within the nhs use windows xp, with the figure continuing to decrease. but kingsley manning, a former chairman of nhs digital, said several hundred thousand computers were still running the out-of-date operating system. mr manning told bbc radio 4's pm programme: "some trusts took the advice that was offered to them very seriously and acted on it and some of them may not have done. "if you're sitting in a hard-pressed hospital in the middle of england, it is difficult to see that as a greater priority than dealing with outpatients or a&e." the liberal democrats and labour have both demanded an inquiry into the cyber-attack. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning iran has been forced to disconnect key oil facilities after suffering a  malware  attack on sunday, say reports. the  computer-virus  is believed to have hit the internal computer systems at iran's oil ministry and its national oil company. equipment on the kharg island and at other iranian oil plants has been disconnected from the net as a precaution. oil production had not been affected by the attack, said the mehr news agency. however, the attack is believed to have been responsible for knocking offline the websites of the iranian oil ministry and national oil company.  the ministry website was back in action on monday but the oil company site has remained unreachable. an iranian oil ministry spokesperson was quoted as saying that data about users of the sites had been stolen as a result of the attack. core data about iran's oil industry remained safe because it was on computer systems that remain separate from the net, they added.  the terminal on kharg island handles about 90% of iran's oil exports.  iran is reported to have mobilised a "cyber crisis committee" to handle the aftermath of the attack and bolster defences.  this committee was set up following attacks in 2010 by a computer-virus  known as stuxnet that was aimed at the nation's nuclear programme.  a 24-year-old algerian man has been extradited to the us to face charges he used a  computer-virus  to steal cash from more than 250 american banks. hamza bendelladj, arrested in thailand in january, is suspected of being a co-creator of the spyeye  malware . the widely used program steals log-in information for online bank accounts that thieves then plunder. if found guilty, mr bendelladj could face $14m (£9m) in fines and a jail sentence of more than 30 years. "bendelladj's alleged criminal reach extended across international borders, directly into victims' homes," said us attorney sally yates in a statement.  "in a cyber-netherworld, he allegedly commercialised the wholesale theft of financial and personal information through this computer-virus  which he sold to other cybercriminals." mr bendelladj, who used the alias bx1 online, is believed to be one of the "critical" controllers of the spyeye software that infected users' computers and then stole personal information used to log in to online financial accounts.  spyeye's controllers are believed to have built up a huge network, or  malicious-bot , of compromised computers they regularly ransacked for information.  the us accuses mr bendelladj of using the information gathered by spyeye to steal cash from banks and of using the  malicious-bot  for other purposes such as sending spam.  in addition, mr bendelladj is accused of helping to develop and sell versions of spyeye that novice cyber-thieves used to find and fleece victims. us law enforcement agencies tracked and caught mr bendelladj by getting him to sell a copy of spyeye to an undercover police officer for $8,500 (£5,500).  a man who pleaded guilty to hacking into the email accounts of celebrities to gain access to nude photos and private information has been sentenced to 10 years in prison by a judge in los angeles. former office clerk christopher chaney, 36, hacked into the accounts of film star scarlett johansson and other celebrities. he claimed he did it because he was addicted to spying on their personal lives. don't post personal information online, like your address, your email address or mobile number. keep personal information as general as possible. never let anyone have access to your passwords. check the privacy settings on accounts like facebook/twitter and make sure you know how to keep your personal information private. change passwords regularly.think very carefully before posting photos of yourself online. once your picture is online, anyone can download it and share it or even change it. never respond or retaliate to negative posts. block any users that send you nasty messages on social media sites. never reveal your real name, your friends' names, where you go to school or your place of work.don't open emails, downloads or attachments from people you don't know or trust as they could contain a  computer-virus  or unwanted messages.block spam emails and delete them. try not to have your mobile or earphones on show, except when you're using it.when you're chatting be aware of what and who is around you.even if you're in a group, stick to well-lit areas.use codes or passwords to lock your phone.download apps that can locate your phone and/or wipe data.turn off the ringer/enable vibrate.don't walk and text.record the phone's unique imei number.register your handset on the national mobile phone register. v more than 50 people have been arrested in india for their alleged involvement in fake security warning scams. the new york times said that delhi police made the arrests during raids on 26 call centres linked to the scams. software giant microsoft helped police trace who was behind the large-scale operations. it said it received more than 11,000 calls per month about fake security warnings and that many people lost significant sums to the fraudsters. "this is an organised crime," courtney gregoire, an assistant general counsel in microsoft's digital crimes unit told the us newspaper.  microsoft has estimated that fraudsters make about $1.5bn (£1.2bn) a year through fake windows support calls. raids on 16 call centres were carried out this week and, earlier in november, another 10 locations were visited by police.  the raids were prompted by microsoft filing complaints with local police in new delhi about call centres it claimed were involved in the fraudulent operations. typically, said microsoft, attempts to trick people revolved around pop-up warnings that falsely claimed that a person's computer was infected with a computer-virus .  fixing the non-existent computer-virus  could involve ringing a tech support centre. an operator would talk a victim through a fake fix and then charge them for the work. in another version of the scam, staff at call centres claimed to be calling from windows official support saying they had spotted that a person's computer has been hacked or harboured a computer-virus . again, victims were expected to pay to fix the non-existent problem.  some people caught out by the scam paid up to $1,000 for the fake tech support, said the newspaper. microsoft has published advice about ways to spot the fake calls and avoid becoming a victim. talktalk customers are being targeted by an industrial-scale fraud network in india, according to whistleblowers who say they were among hundreds of staff hired to scam customers of the british telecoms giant. the scale of the criminal operation has been detailed by the three sources, who say they were employed by two front-companies set up by a gang of professional fraudsters. the sources describe working in "call centres" in two indian cities.  they say as many as 60 "employees" work in shifts in each office, phoning talktalk customers and duping them into giving access to their bank accounts. the whistleblowers say they were given a script in which they were told to claim they were calling from talktalk.  they say they then convinced victims to install a  computer-virus .  a separate team would use that computer-virus  to gain access to victims' online banking, they add. while it has not been possible to independently verify their claims, the sources have given highly detailed accounts of the scammers' tactics, which correlate very closely with previous reports of fraud targeting talktalk customers. the software they named also matches that identified by talktalk in its own website guidance on what to watch out for in a scam call. in addition, a victim of the fraud shown the call centre script has confirmed it matched the one read out to her when she was conned out of £5,000. talktalk was hit by a cyber-attack in october 2015, but that hack appears to be unrelated to the indian fraud. instead, it is alleged the scam is linked to problems in a company hired by the british broadband provider. in 2011, talktalk outsourced some of its call-centre work to the kolkata (calcutta) office of wipro, one of india's largest it service companies.  last year, three wipro employees were arrested on suspicion of selling talktalk customer data. a source in kolkata, who did not want to be named, alleges the same data was obtained by a criminal gang, with usb sticks full of data trading hands at parties. the criminals then used the data to operate at least three call centres, according to the whistleblowers, where staff work in shifts earning about £120 per month to perpetrate an intricate but highly successful scam. they say they phone talktalk customers, using the stolen data to convince victims they are genuine employees of the company.  they then convince the victims their computers are infected, and offer to fix the problems.  through this, the whistleblowers say, the victim is tricked into installing a computer-virus  that gives the scammer complete control over their machine. the victims are then offered a compensation payment, for which they must log in to online banking, they add.  thanks to the computer-virus , the fraudsters are able to gain access to the victims' bank accounts when they log in.  they say they use various methods to spirit away the money: in some cases pretending to make erroneous overpayments, then convincing victims to repay the extra amount. in other cases, victims have said the scammers were able to set up a new payee without their knowledge and transfer the money out of the account directly. although the bbc cannot be sure of the whistleblowers claims, the following suggested they were telling the truth: the three whistleblowers approached us seemingly independently of each other; the information they shared - including the scripts they were told to read out - correlated to a high degreeduring extensive online conversations, they revealed in-depth knowledge of the scammers' techniques, much of which is not in the public domain and matches the experience of talktalk fraud victimsone of the whistleblowers shared a copy of his driver's licence, confirming his identitythe whistleblowers said they were ignorant of the full scale of the fraud, because the eventual bank account theft was handled by a separate, smaller team in a different officeat one stage, two of the whistleblowers attempted to share the information of uk victims they had called, and asked us to warn the victims before they fell for the scam dozens of customers are said to have been affected, and many have lost thousands of pounds as a result of the fraud.  leigh day solicitors is representing about 20 people who have between them lost almost £100,000. questions remain about the speed with which talktalk responded to the data breach at wipro, which is believed to have been in late 2014.  it was only in october 2015, after the apparently unrelated cyber-attack, that talktalk began a "forensic review" leading to the arrests at wipro. "we are aware that there are criminals targeting a number of uk and international companies, and we take our responsibility to protect our customers very seriously," said a spokeswoman for talktalk. "this is why we launched our beat the scammers campaign, helping all our customers to keep themselves from safe from scammers no matter who they claim to be, while our network also proactively blocks over 90 million scam and nuisance calls a month." wipro did not respond to requests for comment. when contacted, the two companies named by the whistleblowers strongly denied any knowledge of criminal behaviour, and insisted their businesses were legitimate. geoff white is a freelance investigative journalist, who has also reported for channel 4 news the risk of a "serious cyber attack" on nuclear power plants around the world is growing, warns a report. the civil nuclear infrastructure in most nations is not well prepared to defend against such attacks, it added. many of the control systems for the infrastructure were "insecure by design" because of their age, it said. published by the influential chatham house think tank, the report studied cyber defences in power plants around the world over an 18-month period. cyber criminals, state-sponsored hackers and terrorists were all increasing their online activity, it said, meaning that the risk of a significant net-based attack was "ever present". such an attack on a nuclear plant, even if small-scale or unlikely, needed to be taken seriously because of the harm that would follow if radiation were released. in addition, it said "even a small-scale cyber security incident at a nuclear facility would be likely to have a disproportionate effect on public opinion and the future of the civil nuclear industry". unfortunately, research carried out for the study showed that the uk's nuclear plants and associated infrastructure were not well protected or prepared because the industry had converted to digital systems relatively recently. this increasing digitisation and growing reliance on commercial software is only increasing the risks the nuclear industry faces.  there was a "pervading myth" that computer systems in power plants were isolated from the internet at large and because of this were immune to the kind of cyber attacks that have dogged other industries. however, it said, this so-called "air gap" between the public internet and nuclear systems was easy to breach with "nothing more than a flash drive". it noted that the destructive stuxnet  computer-virus  infected iran's nuclear facilities via this route.  the story of stuxnet in 2009, a malicious computer program called 'stuxnet' was manually uploaded into a nuclear plant in iran.the worm took control of 1,000 machines involved with producing nuclear materials, and instructed them to self-destruct. what made the world's first cyber-weapon so destructive? the researchers for the report had also found evidence of virtual networks and other links to the public internet on nuclear infrastructure networks. some of these were forgotten or simply unknown to those in charge of these organisations. already search engines that sought out critical infrastructure had indexed these links making it easy for attackers to find ways in to networks and control systems.  keith parker, chief executive of the nuclear industry association, said: "security, including cyber security, is an absolute priority for power station operators." "all of britain's power stations are designed with safety in mind and are stress-tested to withstand a vast range of potential incidents," he added. "power station operators work closely with national agencies such as the centre for the protection of national infrastructure and other intelligence agencies to always be aware of emerging threats." in addition, said mr parker, the industry's regulator continuously monitors plant safety to help protect it from any outside threats. in june this year the international atomic energy agency held its first international conference about the cyber threats facing plants and manufacturing facilities. at the conference yukiya amano, director of the iaea, said both random and  targeted-threat s were being directed at nuclear plants.  "staff responsible for nuclear security should know how to repel cyber-attacks and to limit the damage if systems are actually penetrated," he said in a keynote address to the conference. the civil nuclear industry should do a better job of measuring cyber attack risks and improve the way it defends against them, according to chatham house. many plants examined by the report's researchers lacked preparedness for large-scale attacks that took place outside office hours. "the nuclear industry is beginning - but struggling - to come to grips with this new, insidious threat," said patricia lewis, research director of chatham house's international security programme. the charity childline says it has seen a rise in the number of children contacting it with concerns about online bullying. it saw 4,507 cases of cyberbullying in 2012-13, up from 2,410 in 2011-12. the charity also saw a rise in concerns about self-harming, while depression and difficult family relationships were the top reasons for seeking help. for the first time in the charity's history, more counselling took place online (59%) than by telephone (41%). peter wanless, chief executive of the nspcc charity which runs childline, said: "the issues facing children today are very different from those that faced us as children. "stranger danger, for example, rarely comes up in contacts to childline but depression, self-harm, online bullying and even suicide contacts are increasing exponentially. "if we are to help young people we need to listen to what they are telling us about the issues they are facing." don't post personal information online, like your address, your email address or mobile number. keep personal information as general as possible. never let anyone have access to your passwords. check the privacy settings on accounts like facebook/twitter and make sure you know how to keep your personal information private. change passwords regularly.think very carefully before posting photos of yourself online. once your picture is online, anyone can download it and share it or even change it. never respond or retaliate to negative posts. block any users that send you nasty messages on social media sites. never reveal your real name, your friends' names, where you go to school or your place of work.don't open emails, downloads or attachments from people you don't know or trust as they could contain a  computer-virus  or unwanted messages.block spam emails and delete them. block the bully's email address, phone number and delete them from social media contacts. report their activities to their internet service provider (isp) or to any websites they use to target you.never respond or retaliate, this can just make things worse. it might be difficult, but try to ignore the bullies.get help. talk to a parent, teacher, counsellor or other trusted adult.make a note of the dates and times of bullying messages, along with any details you have about the sender's id and the url.don't pass on cyberbullying videos or messages.if you're being bullied repeatedly, think about changing your user id, nickname or profile.don't ignore it. if you see cyberbullying going on, report it and offer your support. childline can be contacted on 0800 1111 or online at childline follow @bbcnewsbeat on twitter scientists in scotland have developed a system that uses light particles to safeguard electronic transactions. at present, online shopping, banking and voting are protected using digital signatures based on mathematical formulae, which can be cracked. the new approach uses photons to create "quantum digital signatures" which it is claimed "ensures authenticity". findings from teams at strathclyde and heriot-watt universities are published in the journal nature communications. the value of online retail sales in the uk last year was estimated to be between £25bn and £50bn. the cost of electronic crime for the uk retail sector in the financial year 2011/2012 was estimated to be £205m. as criminals become more sophisticated in targeting transactions, organisations are being forced to look at new ways to protect themselves and customers from hacking, data theft and fraud. physicists at heriot-watt university in edinburgh, and strathclyde university in glasgow, say they have used particles of light - photons - to create a new way of verifying electronic transactions. professor gerald buller, from heriot-watt university, said: " computer-virus  attacks have shown that signatures or specific codes can be hijacked, potentially causing chaos with systems being crippled, accounts hacked, and industry and consumers losing millions of pounds.  "our new approach, using quantum mechanics rather than just maths to create signatures for multiple recipients (or customers), could make hacking, fraud and theft near-impossible." the heriot-watt and strathclyde teams say a quantum-based signature means "a malevolent third party" cannot fake a signed message which is being sent to multiple recipients. the system works when a sender writes the signature with encoded light particles and sends it to the receiver. the receiver cannot yet read the signature but can be sure it received an authentic signature. to confirm a message is authentic and to also read it, the receiver then has to receive both the message (the signature) and additional information required to decipher it. once multiple receivers confirm that they have received identical signatures, only then does the sender provide the additional information required to read the signature.  the research teams say this process takes place without customers having to do anything differently to current security methods. a total of 48 of england's nhs trusts were hit by friday's cyber-attack, but only six are not yet back to normal, home secretary amber rudd has said. speaking after an emergency cobra meeting, ms rudd said "there's always more" that could be done to protect against  computer-virus es. she said 97% of nhs trusts were "working as normal" and there was no evidence patient data was affected. the  ransomware  attack hit organisations in at least 99 countries. europol described it as "unprecedented" and said its cyber-crime team was working with affected countries to "mitigate the threat and assist victims". ms rudd insisted the government had "the right plans" to limit the impact of the attack, which also affected the nissan car plant in sunderland. the liberal democrats and labour have both demanded an inquiry into the cyber-attack. lib dem home affairs spokesman lord paddick said "it has left britain defenceless". labour's jonathan ashworth also called for a "full, independent inquiry" into the cyber-attack. as of 21:00 bst on saturday, the following nhs england trusts were still reporting it difficulties on their websites: st bartholomew's in londoneast and north hertfordshire trustjames paget university hospitals trust, norfolksouthport and ormskirk hospital nhs trustlincolnshire hospitals nhs trustyork teaching hospitals nhs trust the 48 nhs trusts affected did not include gp practices. thirteen nhs bodies were also affected in scotland. the scottish government said most nhs computers were expected to be operational by monday. nhs england said patients needing emergency treatment on saturday evening should go to a&e or access emergency services as they normally would. however, a small number of non-urgent services may take some time to return to normal. for example, united lincolnshire hospitals nhs trust has already cancelled routine appointments, tests and operations on monday. blogger who halted  ransomware  'hasn't slept a wink'what is the global  ransomware  outbreak?cyber-attack 'unprecedented' in scaleanalysis: how it started the  malware  spread quickly on friday leaving hospitals and gps unable to access patient data, with many doctors resorting to using pen and paper. their computers were locked by a  ransomware  program which demanded a payment to access blocked files. hospitals across the uk were cancelling operations and ambulances had been diverted from hospitals in some areas. lynne owens, head of the national crime agency, said: "at this moment in time we don't know whether it's a very sophisticated criminal network or whether it's a number of individuals operating together."  ron grimshaw, 80, was halfway through an mri scan to test for prostate cancer at lister hospital in stevenage, hertfordshire, when staff became aware of the attack. i got there at 11am, went through the usual formalities. got my gown on, they put a feed into my wrist to send dye around my blood stream. i was put in the scanner for 10 minutes and then i was pulled out again.  the nurses were saying something about a cyber-attack meaning their systems were down. they weren't sure when it was going to start again so i waited for a bit. but it never happened and i went home. i was meant to have a chest x-ray as well and that was cancelled. i gave them my mobile number and they said they'd ring me back telling me when to come in. you've got to sympathise with the nurses as they will have to work extra hours. it was unbelievable you don't expect to go to hospital in the middle of a cyber-attack. damn nuisance. the computer-virus , identified as  ransomware , exploits a vulnerability in microsoft windows software first identified by the us national security agency, experts have said. kingsley manning, a former chairman of nhs digital, said the government and the nhs had been "very well aware" that a cyber-attack was a threat and "significant amounts of money" had been invested "in anticipation that this sort of thing would happen". after the home secretary expressed disappointment that some health trusts were still operating computer systems on windows xp, despite having been advised to upgrade, mr manning claimed that several hundred thousand computers were still running windows xp. he added that the government would have been aware of that. mr manning told bbc radio 4's pm programme: "some trusts took the advice that was offered to them very seriously and acted on it and some of them may not have done. "if you're sitting in a hard-pressed hospital in the middle of england, it is difficult to see that as a greater priority than dealing with outpatients or a&e. "it's very difficult to get individual trusts to use the money for this purpose." nhs digital said that 4.7% of devices within the nhs use windows xp, with the figure continuing to decrease. the  ransomware  used in the attack is called  ransomware  and attacks windows operating systems. it  encryption  files on a user's computer, blocking them from view, before demanding money, via an on-screen message, to access them again.  the  malware  seems to have spread via a  computer-virus  known as a worm. unlike many other malicious programs, this one has the ability to move around a network by itself. most others rely on humans to spread by tricking them into clicking on an attachment harbouring the attack code. some experts say the attackers used a weakness in microsoft systems which is known to the us national security agency as "eternalblue". a cybersecurity researcher tweeting as @ malware techblog has claimed to have found a way to slow down the spread of the computer-virus  after registering a domain name hidden in the  malware . he said that the  malware  makes a request to a domain name, but if it is live the  malware  stops spreading. a security update - or patch - was released by microsoft in march to protect against the computer-virus , but it appears many organisations have not applied the patch - or may still be using outdated systems like windows xp. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning christmas shoppers in northern ireland have been warned to be on their guard against the top five retail scams. the department of enterprise's trading standards service has issued the appeal. it said scams are estimated to cost ni consumers £100m every year.  this year's top five festive scams include fake credit providers promising fast loans online and "i've been robbed" emails asking for money. the other scams are fraudulent software support companies phoning to say your computer has a computer-virus  which is stealing all your bank details, fake websites selling counterfeit goods and "free trials" of slimming and beauty products which actually commit you to large monthly payments. damien doherty of trading standards service (tss) said there had been about 50 complaints since the start of november about the purchase of counterfeit goods online. he said the majority related to fake ugg boots and ghd hair straighteners. "people will see a website which says uk ugg boots, uk ghd," he said. "if it is a .co.uk the website is registered in a domain in the uk, if it is .com it can be registered anywhere in the world. "the majority of the counterfeit websites are actually chinese websites, you can do a 'who is?' check online which shows you where the website is registered, if it is china or the far east, the chances are the goods are fake. "while we may all think that we are too canny to get caught out by the scammers, evidence shows otherwise." mr doherty said the current uncertain economic climate was "providing an ideal opportunity for scams to thrive" and that tss was "being inundated daily with complaints". "this is a multi-billion pound industry, the reason they get away with it is the consumers love a bargain," he added. he said he was aware of hundreds of people who had lost anything from £150 to £5000 in fast loan schemes. "a lot of people have lost a lot of money they can ill afford," he added. anyone who has been the victim of a scam or has information about a suspected scam can contact consumerline, which is run in partnership between the consumer council and the northern ireland trading standards service, on 0300 123 6262. assassinations of nuclear scientists, a sophisticated cyber-attack, and now, last weekend, a mysterious blast at a munitions base that has killed the "godfather" of iran's ballistic missile programme. the explosion at the bid ganeh base was so powerful, it killed 17 revolutionary guard corps soldiers and rattled windows in tehran several miles away.  iran says it was an accident, but few who follow events there are convinced.  the recent talk may be all about a future, desperate last-ditch military strike by israel to destroy iran's suspected nuclear weapons programme, but to all appearances, a covert "black ops" campaign to disrupt it has already been under way for some time.  at least three iranian nuclear scientists have been killed in the past two years, and last winter, a  computer-virus  codenamed stuxnet was introduced into iran's nuclear enrichment centrifuges, causing havoc and setting back the programme by several months. mahan abedin, a leading researcher in terrorism studies, says: "the assassination of iran's scientists and the introduction of the stuxnet  computer-virus  last year constitute state terrorism."  no-one, of course, is claiming responsibility for these actions, but us intelligence is widely believed to have had a hand in developing the stuxnet computer-virus , while iranian officials have previously accused israel of being behind the assassinations.  of all the countries in the region to feel threatened by iran, israel is most alarmed by the iranian nuclear programme. on sunday israeli defence minister ehud barak said of the explosion at the base: "i don't know the extent of the explosion but, it would be desirable if they multiplied." plenty of other countries share israel's concerns about iran's growing military power, though they tend not to express it publicly.  on tuesday, a gulf arab official who asked not to be named told the bbc: "we are very worried about iran, it's getting to the point where it's a very dangerous scenario. 2012 is a crucial year when decisions are going to have to be taken".  in a cable leaked by wikileaks, it emerged saudi arabia's king abdullah had urged the us to deal decisively with iran and stop its suspected nuclear weapons programme.  the saudi monarch used the poetic language of the nejdi desert, urging washington to "cut off the head of the snake".  the uae, involved in a long-running territorial dispute with iran over three gulf islands, has also been quietly urging the west to contain iran and stop it acquiring a nuclear bomb.  bahrain's sunni monarchy also sees iran as essentially a hostile neighbour bent on stirring up bahrain's shia majority and encouraging it to press for an islamic republic.  last week, the bahrain government announced it had uncovered a terrorist plot to blow up the causeway linking it to saudi arabia, adding that the suspects had links to iran. but at a forum on iran hosted in london on monday by the international institute of strategic studies (iiss), many voiced the view that iran was hell-bent on acquiring the nuclear bomb and there was very little that was going to deflect it.  referring to the steady ratcheting up of western sanctions on iran, sir richard dalton, the uk's ambassador to tehran from 2002-06, said: "there is no sanctions policy out there that will change iran's behaviour."  however he questioned the benefit of the apparent covert action against iran, saying "whoever is behind these actions needs to make the case for them publicly, and i'm not sure at all that that case holds water." mr abedin said: "no tool, no pressure, not even the toughest of sanctions, nor even military conflict will work [to steer iran away from becoming a nuclear weapons power]."  mark fitzpatrick, the iiss resident expert on iran's nuclear programme, is in no doubt which direction iran is heading.  he told the forum: "i think iran probably already has a latent nuclear weapons capability." current testing and contact tracing is inadequate to prevent a second wave of coronavirus after schools in the uk reopen, scientists have warned. increased transmission would also result from parents not having to stay at home with their children, they say. researchers said getting pupils back to school was important - but more work was needed to keep the computer-virus  in check. the head of the nhs test and trace scheme said it was "already delivering" and on the right track for future.  baroness dido harding said: "i absolutely don't accept that this is failure, it's the opposite." she said more testing is required but maintained the current level of contact tracing was "well within the bounds" of what the researchers "are saying is necessary".  the uk government said plans were in place to ensure schools can reopen safely at the start of the school year. england, wales, scotland and northern ireland have separate contact tracing systems. asked about the estimate that only 50% of contacts are being traced in england, simon clarke, minister for regional growth, told the bbc government figures were higher. he said nhs test and trace is "maturing all the time" and getting children back to school in the autumn is a "top priority" that the government would not "be willing to trade". "you're building an entirely new infrastructure which there's no precedent for," he said. "but we're confident it is working, we're confident that it will continue to improve, and we're confident that it will allow schools to open safely in the autumn." dr david nabarro, the world health organization's special envoy on covid-19, said the computer-virus  is "capable of surging back really quickly" and stressed the importance of being able to trace, test and isolate people. "if we can do that, and do it well, then the surges are kept really small, they're dealt with quickly and life can go on," he told bbc radio 4's today programme. he later said he thinks britain "will do really well" because there is "really good attention to where the computer-virus  is locally" and a lot of "public engagement in getting on top of it". a government spokesman said local authorities will "be able to determine the best action to take to help curb the spread of the computer-virus  should there be a rise in cases". lockdown limit: can we lift lockdown any further?schools: when will children be returning?exercise: what are the guidelines on getting out?the r number: what it means and why it matterslook-up tool: how many cases in your area? researchers from ucl and the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine used computer models to see how the computer-virus  might spread in the uk as pupils returned to the classroom and their parents were more able to go back to work or resume other activities. the study assumes children are less likely to catch - and therefore spread - coronavirus and that some parents would continue to work from home.  as first reported in june, the combined effect on pupils and parents would be enough to cause a second wave if there was no effective test-and-trace programme.  this would happen around december 2020 and would be twice as big as the first peak, unless the government took other actions such as reimposing lockdown. the study, now formally published in the lancet child and adolescent health, shows a second wave could be prevented if: both 75% of people with covid symptoms were found and 68% of their contacts traced orboth 87% of people with symptoms were found and 40% of their contacts traced however, the researchers said nhs test and trace in england was falling short.  they estimate only half of contacts are being traced and while it is harder to know the percentage of people being tested, they say this also appears too low.  "it is not achieving the levels we have modelled. it doesn't look good enough to me," said prof chris bonell, from the london school of hygiene and tropical medicine. dr jasmina panovska-griffiths, from ucl, added: "with uk schools reopening fully in september, prevention of a second wave will require a major scale-up of testing to test 75% of symptomatic infections - combined with tracing of 68% of their contacts, and isolation of symptomatic and diagnosed cases." how test-and-trace works: people with symptoms of cough, fever or loss of sense of smell or taste are testedif they are positive for coronavirus, they isolate for 10 days and their household does so for 14 daysthey have to inform the nhs of everyone they have come into close contact withthese contacts must also spend 14 days in quarantine postcode search: see case numbers in your areagcse students allowed to drop poetry in 2021 examsschools will be ready for september - minister schools have been shut around the world as countries used lockdowns to control the spread of covid-19. it is estimated 1.6 billion children have been kept out of the classroom. in the uk, schools closed on 20 march, except to children of key workers or vulnerable children. on 1 june, they began a limited reopening for early years pupils, reception, year 1 and year 6. schools are due to restart for all children in scotland on 11 august and across the uk in early september. but every step taken to open up society makes it easier for the coronavirus to spread.  cases are already starting to rise and the idea of closing pubs in order to open schools has already been floated.  the uk government's chief medical adviser, prof chris whitty, has said "we are near the limit" of what we can do without causing a resurgence. the individual nations of the uk have their own contact tracing systems. the government said nhs test and trace in england has reached 80% of those testing positive and traced over 75% of their contacts. the welsh government said its advisory group recommended that schools open in september with all pupils present on site, and "we should be aiming to trace an estimated 80% of contacts, at least 35% of which are to be traced within 24 hours". since 21 june, 90% of close contacts were reached by the service, according to welsh government figures. a scottish government spokesperson said guidance set out "a number of specific risk-mitigation measures that will need to be introduced" including an "enhanced surveillance programme". in northern ireland, the latest figures for the week to 29 july showed 98% of contacts were successfully reached by the country's contact tracing service. follow james on twitter ask martin lewis: answering your questions about travelling to spainhooked: how has lockdown affected drinking habits? do you work in test and trace? or are you a parent? share your views and experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist.  whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursaysend pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.ukupload your pictures / video hereplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy a senior manager at eurofins, the uk's biggest forensic services provider which was hit by a cyber-attack in june, has warned the country to "ready itself" for further attacks.  a  ransomware  computer-virus  infected the firm's computer systems, laboratory work was suspended for seven weeks and police investigations and trials were delayed.  in his first interview since the incident, mark pearse told bbc news it could happen to any organisation. "it's a threat to society," he said.  "there is no sector that's immune to this," said mr pearse, commercial director of eurofins in four countries, including britain. "we've got the transport sector, the energy sector, the health sector, other public organisations, the criminal justice system. "we're all vulnerable," he said. what is  ransomware ? more than half of british firms report cyber-attacks cyber-crime victims 'lose £190,000 a day' the cyber-attack affected eurofins' it systems in the 47 countries where it operates.  mr pearse said he was first told about it in a call at 05:00, as he was about to catch a flight from manchester airport, and spent the day on the phone dealing with the fallout. "the labs are quite dependent on it and everything these days is either controlled by it, all the data is stored on servers, and so the processes quickly came to a grinding halt," he explained. eurofins' forensic science division in the uk, where it has seven sites and 60% of the market, was especially badly hit, so after consulting police chiefs and senior prosecutors, the company decided to stop accepting samples of blood, dna and other scientific evidence from suspects, victims and crime scenes. "it has huge implications," said mr pearse, a molecular cell biologist who used to work for the metropolitan police and the state-run forensic science service.  "we're the biggest private provider so that was quite a decision to make," he said.  "we do many hundreds, many thousands of cases and samples...  "so very quickly the job in hand was partly to investigate the cyber-incident, and the consequences from an it perspective... and to provide continuity of service." the national police chiefs' council co-ordinated emergency measures to manage the flow of specimens submitted for analysis so that the most serious cases were given priority by other providers.  "inevitably, if you take 60% or so of the capacity out of the forensic science sector you can't carry on as 'business as usual'," said mr pearse.  "the other suppliers can't cope with all the work so backlogs, to a limited degree, did build up in police forces."  towards the end of july a backlog of 20,000 samples had developed  but that has now been cut to around 10,000 as services have returned to normal. bbc news was told that eurofins had paid the cyber-criminals a ransom to restore its it systems but mr pearse refused to comment. "the national crime agency is now taking an international lead in the criminal investigation into this crime on eurofins group and that investigation is ongoing and will probably be ongoing for some months and therefore it's subject to those usual constraints," he said. iran's first nuclear power station has been connected to the country's electricity grid, state news reports. bushehr was supplying 60 megawatts of its 1,000 megawatt capacity to the national grid, officials said. the reactor's generating unit began operating at a low level in may, prompting israel and other nations to express fears the reactor could help iran develop nuclear weapons. tehran says its intentions are purely peaceful. but the international atomic energy agency (iaea) has said it is "increasingly concerned" that iran is also secretly working on components for a nuclear weapons programme. iran's atomic energy organisation said the plant in the country's south was connected to the national grid at 23:30 (19:00 gmt) on saturday.  the connection had initially been scheduled for late last year but, as with developments at bushehr since the project began in the 1970s, it was dogged by delays. construction on the plant was abandoned after iran's 1979 islamic revolution until the mid-1990s, when moscow reached a billion-dollar deal with tehran to complete it. in february, iran had to remove fuel from the reactor "for technical reasons", amid speculation that the stuxnet  computer-virus  may have been responsible. the united states and other western nations for years urged russia to abandon the project, warning it could help iran build atomic weapons. but an agreement obliging tehran to repatriate spent nuclear fuel to russia eased those concerns. in february, an iaea report obtained by the bbc and made available online by the institute for science and international security (isis) - said iran was "not implementing a number of its obligations." these included "clarification of the remaining outstanding issues which give rise to concerns about possible military dimensions to its nuclear programme". six world powers are negotiating with iran over its nuclear programme, and the country is subject to united nations security council sanctions over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment. enriched uranium can be used for civilian nuclear purposes, but also to build atomic bombs. hundreds of british children are being blackmailed into performing sex acts online, the child exploitation and online protection centre has warned. abusers talk victims into sexual acts or sharing images, then threaten to send pictures to family and friends. ceop said in 12 cases over two years, 424 children had been blackmailed in this way - 184 of them in the uk. daniel perry, who died aged 17, is thought to have been blackmailed with online footage before his death. the teenager is thought to have believed he was chatting with an american girl but was told by blackmailers the conversations had been recorded. they then threatened to share the video with friends and family unless he paid money. daniel perry, from dunfermline in fife, died on 15 july. cyber-blackmail is the act of threatening to share information about a person to the public, their friends or family, unless a demand is met or money is paid.  do not send any form of sexual picture. you never know where it may end up, even if you think you know the person really well. if you're being blackmailed or threatened tell someone you trust. it doesn't matter how embarrassing it is or if you've done something you wished you hadn't.collect the evidence.keep the threatening emails and take a screenshot.report cyber-blackmail to the police. don't post personal information online, like your address, your email address or mobile number. keep personal information as general as possible. never let anyone have access to your passwords. check the privacy settings on accounts like facebook/twitter and make sure you know how to keep your personal information private. change passwords regularly.think very carefully before posting photos of yourself online. once your picture is online, anyone can download it and share it or even change it. never respond or retaliate to negative posts. block any users that send you nasty messages on social media sites. never reveal your real name, your friends' names, where you go to school or your place of work.don't open emails, downloads or attachments from people you don't know or trust as they could contain a  computer-virus  or unwanted messages.block spam emails and delete them. try not to have your mobile or earphones on show, except when you're using it.when you're chatting be aware of what and who is around you.even if you're in a group, stick to well-lit areas.use codes or passwords to lock your phone.download apps that can locate your phone and/or wipe data.turn off the ringer/enable vibrate.don't walk and text.record the phone's unique imei number.register your handset on the national mobile phone register. follow @bbcnewsbeat on twitter click here to tweet this story from your account there were an estimated 3.6 million cases of fraud and two million computer misuse offences in a year, according to an official survey.  the crime survey for england and wales included the offences for the first time in its annual report, which covered the year to september. separate figures recorded by police showed an 8% rise in offences overall.  the office for national statistics said crime recording improvements meant the police figures could not reveal trends. john flatley, from the ons, said: "in the past, burglary and theft of vehicles were the high-volume crimes driving trends but their numbers have fallen substantially since then. "when the crime survey started [35 years ago], fraud was not considered a significant threat and the internet had yet to be invented. "today's figures demonstrate how crime has changed, with fraud now the most commonly experienced offence." sir tom winsor, the chief inspector of constabulary for england and wales, told the you and yours programme on bbc radio 4 that many frauds went undetected and a great deal never got reported to the police. "the amount of fraud that is taking place now is probably in epidemic proportions," he added. "the police are having to work very, very hard to keep up with even the ones they know about. "the capability at police forces is quite skeletal and that needs to change and change a great deal."  the national police chiefs' council lead for crime and incident recording, chief constable jeff farrar, said forces were working with the home office, police and crime commissioners, and industry experts to develop new tactics to fight cybercrime.  "the ability to commit crime online demonstrates the need for policing to adapt and transform to tackle these cyber challenges," he said.  bank and credit account fraud - meaning criminals accessing bank accounts, credit cards or fraudulently using plastic card details"advance fee fraud" - crimes where the victim has been tricked into handing over cash after a communication, such as a lottery scam "non-investment fraud" - criminals conning a victim into buying something, often online, perhaps through a bogus phone call or email.other frauds including investment or fake charity scams there are two broad categories of "computer misuse" crimes:  unauthorised access to personal information, including hacking computer-virus ,  malware  or other incidents such as " dos-attack " attacks aimed at online services  des dillon, who runs a student accommodation company, told bbc radio 5 live he had become a victim of cybercrime after being tricked into giving away information that led to the loss of £230,000 from his company bank account.  "over a couple of phone calls, he asked me for various [information], third number, fourth number and ninth letter, that type of thing, and obviously he put it together very quickly," he said.  "we've recouped [over] £100,000, we're outstanding £113,000. we managed to block and recoup the balance and now we're fighting [with the bank] about the other portion of it." katy worobec, director of financial fraud action uk, said banks had managed to stop £6 in every £10 targeted by criminals in the first half of 2016, but that people needed to be aware of the threat.  "while the industry invests in new systems to stop the criminals, fraudsters are increasingly targeting people directly," she said.  "customers and businesses need to be alert to the threats posed by the continued rise in impersonation scams attempting to trick them out of their personal details and money." all but one police force - nottinghamshire - recorded an increase in violent crime last year. the largest percentage increases were logged by northumbria police, up 95%, durham police (73%), west yorkshire police (48%) and avon and somerset police (45%). "violence against a person" offences now include revenge pornography and internet trolling, which the ons believes contributed towards the 22% rise from last year.   police recorded 695 homicides in the 12 months to the end of september - 125 more than the previous year. this included the 96 cases of manslaughter resulting from the 1989 hillsborough disaster, because the inquest verdicts were returned during the last recording period. excluding those deaths, there was still a 5% rise in homicides.  the figures for fraud and computer misuse show how behind the curve our statistics have fallen.  it is undeniable that the overall level of crime has been falling across the industrialised world for a quarter of a century, as report after report on our experiences show we are less and less likely to be victims.  however, while traditional crimes such as burglary and theft fall, criminal gangs look for new opportunities by exploiting gaps in online and banking security.  the brutal fact is that nobody knows how big the problem is. it is massively underreported and, outside of london, it is arguable that national policing hasn't yet got the skills or the expert manpower it needs.  a good detective must have the skills to catch a burglar or killer, but very few of them have the skills to analyse screens of information and find criminals who have taken the digital road to a life of crime. while there was a 23% increase in attempted murders, the ons said this may have been "influenced" by improved crime recording. recorded offences involving a knife or sharp weapon hit their highest level for five years, up 11% up on the previous year to 30,838. there was a 7% rise in gun crime, which bbc home affairs correspondent danny shaw said had been mainly driven by an increase in offences involving handguns and shotguns, but added that some of the increase might be accounted for by better firearm identification processes. metropolitan police commissioner sir bernard hogan-howe said the crime figures were akin to "the warning lights flashing." policing minister brandon lewis said reforms of the police were "working" and the offences "traditionally" measured by the survey - before the inclusion of fraud and cybercrime - had fallen by 370,000. mr lewis said the government was investing £1.9bn in cybersecurity over five years, adding that the survey helped inform efforts.   "understanding more about these crimes will help us continue to protect those who are vulnerable," he said. iran temporarily stopped enriching uranium earlier in november, according to the un nuclear watchdog. the international atomic energy agency gave no reason for the temporary halt in the enrichment of low-grade uranium. but there was speculation that a complex computer worm which infected the personal computers of staff at the country's first nuclear power station, at bushehr, might be the reason. iran on tuesday denied that the stuxnet worm had caused any damage. the west fears iran's ultimate goal is to build nuclear weapons. iran says its programme is aimed solely at peaceful energy use. 'real problems' in a report leaked to several news agencies, the iaea said that none of the centrifuge units at iran's natanz plant were being fed for enrichment to lower-levels when inspectors visited the site on 16 november. on both earlier and subsequent visits more than 4,800 such centrifuges were being fed with nuclear material.  it was not clear whether the technical problems suffered at the plant, which are reported to have included power fluctuations, were due to the  computer-virus . one senior diplomat quoted anonymously by reuters news agency said that iran was using an old centrifuge model which has been dogged by breakdowns for years.  "i don't think you can necessarily blame stuxnet entirely. there could be some other issues but clearly they have been having some real problems," the senior diplomat told reuters. cyber experts say the worm, which iran said in september had attacked its computers, has been configured to damage centrifuges and is capable of seizing control of industrial plants. some western experts have said its complexity suggests it could only have been created by a "nation state". senior iranian officials have said that the computer-virus  is evidence that an "electronic war" has been launched against the country. the bbc's kevin connolly finds paris in the wake of the attacks subdued but stoical - and takes comfort in the fact that, on the surface, ordinary life continues as before. november was never really the month to visit paris. it's not quite christmas, when the cold brittle lights of the great department stores glisten in the december darkness. and it's a long way from april with its sensuous hint of warmer, longer evenings to come. at this time of year fallen leaves still lie around the plane trees, as though they've been shrugged off in an involuntary shudder at the coming of winter.  some things here never change of course. order pig's trotters in the best restaurant near my old apartment building and they still come with a diamond pattern burned in to the crispy skin on the grill, as though they were wearing argyll socks.  and riders of motor scooters still squirm irritatingly through lines of static traffic in a clumsy waddle as though they were carrying the weight of the bike between their clenched buttocks. you find yourself searching for the comfort of the familiar at moments like this, when things are superficially familiar but when the truth is that they've been changed utterly. this time last month paris was the capital of a country that was involved in a very modern type of war, in which laser-guided, computer-controlled missiles were being dropped on targets in syria, a distant former colony.  now it is a front line in a modern form of conflict in which the comfortable landscape of any european or american city can become a physical battlefield.  the enemy wears no uniform and acknowledges no law of war.  its foot-soldiers could be a man or woman sitting next to you on a bus who work alongside you, who grew up hearing the same news and studying the same history lessons as you - and came to dangerously different conclusions.  they might live alongside you as sleepers for years before strapping on a suicide vest or picking up an assault rifle and venturing with deadly intent into the same streets they travel on their daily journey to work. of course the truth is that almost all of the commuters sitting around you looking bored or tired or apprehensive are exactly what they seem. france, its politicians say, is at war but it's an exhausting, nerve-wracking kind of war in which nothing might happen for months or  years but where equally tomorrow may bring the chaos and fear of the battlefield to the streets of the city.  terrorists target the comfortable certainties of daily life. a big part of what they want is that nagging fear they install at the back of your mind like a  computer-virus . is that jumpy-looking young man with a rucksack a suicide bomber or just a nervous student on his way to an exam? when you say goodbye to your children on their way to a party in a bar or to a rock concert are you really saying goodbye? what good does it do to say "take care," or "safe journey," to the people you love when you know that no amount of care that they might take will really protect them and that the safety of their journey is not really in their own hands? all of this week, parisians have been thinking all of these thoughts and yet somehow life here has ground on in the gathering gloom of november. but if the weapon of the terrorist is fear and the uncertainty that flows from it, well, we ordinary citizens of paris, peterhead, peoria and points beyond have a weapon of our own.  it is the dogged durability that got parisians out to work again in the days after those terrible attacks - the foot soldiers' ability to soldier on through the darkness.  paris is a little subdued just now - not quite as i remember it. but people are eating in restaurants, and working in offices and factories and grumbling in queues. life has gone on not with some great show of bravado but with a kind of determination that is all the more impressive for being understated. so maybe i was wrong to say that november is not the best time to be here. it  is a little grey and rainy and the fears and uncertainties about the future are real enough… but when you think about the endless emotions the old place has lived through in a week, really, it's never looked better to me. how to listen to from our own correspondent: bbc radio 4: saturdays at 11:30  listen online or download the podcast. bbc world service: at weekends - see world service programme schedule or listen online. subscribe to the bbc news magazine's email newsletter to get articles sent to your inbox. company directors are the victims of one in five cases of identity fraud, according to fraud prevention organisation cifas. they account for 19% of victims of these type of fraud cases, despite making up less than 9% of the uk population. directors have been targeted directly by scams owing to the potential for con-artists to steal large sums. fraud victims are most likely to be aged between 31 and 50, cifas said. however, the biggest rise in 2016 from the previous year was among those aged 21 and under. the report, by cifas and lexisnexis risk solutions, also warned that fraudsters were attempting to obtain credit files as a pre-cursor to committing identity fraud.  some 47% of recorded identity frauds involving fraudulently obtained credit files from company directors took place in london and the south east of england. in comparison, wales and the north east of england each accounted for 2% of these fraud cases.     the vast majority of identity fraud takes place when a fraudster pretends to be an individual, so as to buy a product or take out a loan in their name.  fraudsters get hold of the necessary personal material by stealing mail, computer hacking, obtaining data on the dark web, and exploiting personal information on social media, according to cifas. they can also gather it though social engineering, where people give up personal information to someone pretending to be from their bank, the police or a retailer.  cifas advises people to shred important paper documents - and use passwords, privacy settings and anti-virus software on their computers. limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti- spyware  programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas attempts by cyber-criminals and hostile intelligence agencies to attack the british government have been outlined by the foreign secretary. william hague told a conference in munich how government computers had been infected by a computer-virus  last year. he also detailed an attempt to steal data from a uk defence contractor. mr hague claimed cyberspace was providing "rich pickings" for criminals and urged governments to move faster to counter the threat. in his speech, mr hague went into detail about some of the recent attacks to which systems in the uk have been exposed. some computers belonging to the british government had been infected with the "zeus"  computer-virus , he said, after users had opened an e-mail purporting to come from the white house and followed a link. mr hague said: "our experts were able to clear up this infection but more sophisticated attacks such as these are becoming more common." defence contractors in the uk were also being targeted, the foreign secretary said, describing an attempt by someone masquerading as an employee of another defence firm to send a malicious file designed to steal information. mr hague also said that last month three of his staff had been sent an e-mail apparently from another colleague in the foreign office. in fact the e-mail was "from a hostile state intelligence agency" and contained "code embedded in the attached document that would have attacked their machine." the foreign secretary said the e-mail had been prevented from reaching its intended targets. "these are the kind of threats we are now facing every day," he said. mr hague said these kinds of cyber-threats called for a "global response", with like-minded countries agreeing standards of behaviour on the internet. he added that the uk was determined to be at the forefront of attempts to safeguard liberties on the net, but warned that many countries were "actively working against us in a hostile manner." just after i had written about hoaxes fooling journalists yesterday, what appears to be another great example reared its ugly head. or rather its alluring visage because this one involved the dating site beautiful people. the story was that a  computer-virus , handily named shrek, had attacked the sites systems, allowing 30,000 people to evade the normal beauty screening procedures and gain access to the site. now they were being chucked off the site, to their great distress, and offered counselling for the pain that caused them. well guess what - journalists loved this story. all sorts of respectable new outlets - including it must be said parts of the bbc - rushed to cover it, so that the name beautifulpeople.com was heard across the land, indeed around the globe. but one respected security blogger immediately smelled something rather ugly. graham cluley of sophos pointed out that the website said it had not informed any computer security firms about the shrek attack because it was being investigated internally and member privacy had not been affected. phew! so, lots of publicity for the website but nothing for current or future members to worry about then. how convenient! mr cluley's conclusion is that this was all just a publicity stunt. he points out that the sites pr firm golden goose won a prestigious public relations award for a previous story about beautiful people members letting themselves go over christmas. but the site and its pr handlers reacted with hurt outrage at the suggestion that the story might perhaps have been the result of some creative thinking rather than a real hacker attack. a spokeswoman for the firm said it was a genuine incident which had cost a lot to repair:  "beautiful people had to refund over 61,000 to people who paid for premium services who were then rejected." now graham cluley has issued a challenge via this tweet: "if beautiful people forward the shrek computer-virus  to an anti-virus firm for analysis ill give 500 quid to children in need." over to you, beautiful people. surely, having been damaged so badly by this evil piece of  malware , the opportunity to earn some money for a great charity is too beautiful to miss? iran's president has said some of the centrifuges used in its uranium enrichment programme were sabotaged, raising suspicions that they were targeted by the stuxnet computer worm.  mahmoud ahmadinejad said the problems had been created by enemies of iran, but had had only a limited effect. iran has repeatedly denied that stuxnet had affected its nuclear programme. the un said last week that iran had temporarily halted most of its uranium enrichment work earlier this month. the west fears iran's ultimate goal is to build nuclear weapons. iran says its programme is aimed solely at peaceful energy use. "they succeeded in creating problems for a limited number of our centrifuges with the software they had installed in electronic parts," mr ahmadinejad told a news conference.  "our specialists stopped that and they will not be able to do it again," he added without elaborating on the software thought to have been used. the vienna-based international atomic energy agency said in a report last week that a temporary stoppage had hit iran's natanz enrichment nuclear plant earlier this month. experts say the worm, which iran said in september had attacked its computers, has been specially configured to damage motors commonly used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control.  the  computer-virus  is a form of customised  malware , written to attack a precise target. analysts say the complexity of the code suggests it was created by a "nation state" in the west, rather than an organised crime group.  senior iranian officials have said that the computer-virus  is evidence that an "electronic war" has been launched against the country. mr ahmadinejad's comments about the cyber attack worm come on the day that a high-profile iranian nuclear scientist was killed and another wounded in two separate but similar attacks in the capital. the president accused israel and the west of being behind the attacks. iran's first nuclear power station has begun operating at a low level, says the russian company that built it. the generating unit at the bushehr reactor was brought up to the "minimum controllable level of power" on sunday. "this is one of the final stages in the physical launch of the reactor," said vladislav bochkov, a spokesman for the russian company atomstroyexport. israel and other nations have expressed fears that the reactor could help iran develop nuclear weapons. in february, the international atomic energy agency (iaea) said it had new information on "possible military dimensions" to iran's nuclear plans. but tehran says its intentions are purely peaceful. on monday, a member of an iranian parliamentary commission monitoring bushehr said "final tests" were being conducted. the following day, atomstroyexport said it had launched "a self-supporting chain reaction" in the "active zone" of the plant's first reactor. "this means that a nuclear reaction has begun," it said. iran's fars news agency said the plant would start providing power to the national grid within two months. the bushehr project was begun in 1970s but it has been dogged by delays. construction on the plant was abandoned after iran's 1979 islamic revolution until the mid-1990s, when moscow reached a billion-dollar deal with tehran to complete it. in february, iran had to remove fuel from the reactor "for technical reasons", amid speculation that the stuxnet  computer-virus  may be responsible. the united states and other western nations for years urged russia to abandon the project, warning it could help iran build atomic weapons. but an agreement obliging tehran to repatriate spent nuclear fuel to russia eased those concerns. in february, an iaea report obtained by the bbc and made available online by the institute for science and international security (isis) - said iran was "not implementing a number of its obligations." these include "clarification of the remaining outstanding issues which give rise to concerns about possible military dimensions to its nuclear programme". six world powers are negotiating with iran over its nuclear programme, and the country is subject to united nations security council sanctions over its refusal to halt uranium enrichment. enriched uranium can be used for civilian nuclear purposes, but also to build atomic bombs. the impact of george osborne's shock announcement that police funding would be protected in real terms still has not been fully grasped.  two months have passed since the chancellor told mps there would be no cuts in the overall policing budget from 2016-17 to 2019-20, but there has been little recognition of just how significant that statement was.   it has subtly altered the political landscape, fundamentally changed policing priorities and is set to shape the law and order agenda for the media.  the spending review announcement came 12 days after the attacks in paris, which led to a debate about whether cuts to neighbourhood policing would erode intelligence-gathering and if uk police firearms units had the capacity and capability to respond to an attack by marauding gunmen. politically, it would have been very tricky for the chancellor to have gone ahead with a cuts programme without acknowledging those concerns, but he went far further than anyone expected.  the move outfoxed labour, which had argued police could withstand cutbacks of no more than 10%.  they did not think the chancellor would settle for anything less than that and were planning a fresh onslaught of their anti-cuts campaign.   by design or default (and i veer towards the design theory), it also has placed mr osborne as the "policeman's friend".  he is seen as the man who saved the 43 forces in england and wales from cuts they feared would be in the region of 20-25%.   why the chancellor would want to be cast in that role may have something to do with the unofficial contest to succeed david cameron when he steps down as prime minister, though i am sure he would deny it.   one of mr osborne's likely rivals is theresa may, the home secretary, whose bold programme of policing changes and uncompromising style have made her deeply unpopular among the ranks of constables, sergeants and inspectors.   mr osborne's line towards the end of his statement: "the police protect us, and we're going to protect the police," signalled a clear difference of tone from mrs may. indeed, in december, the home secretary told chief constables and police and crime commissioners (pccs) she would not have "any sympathy" for those who complained about existing budget cuts and that the new funding package did not "insulate" them from the need to make further efficiencies.   "it does not let you off the hook or mean you can slow the pace of change," she said. "now - more than ever before - there is no excuse not to deliver."   of course, there are still anxieties within policing circles about the effect of central government funding cuts imposed since 2010, and whether forces can handle the record number of sexual abuse cases they are having to investigate.   revised proposals for a new funding formula, after the previous bungled attempt, will create losers as well as winners, reigniting the concerns.   but, overall, the media appetite for stories about police budgets is likely to dwindle. instead, during the next five months, in the lead-up to the first pcc elections since november 2012, the focus will shift towards mrs may's latest plans.  they include:  enhanced powers for police volunteers, which i wrote about in novembercloser police working with other blue-light servicesgiving pccs greater responsibilities, in particular over their local fire brigadesa strengthened role for the independent police complaints commission there has also been renewed speculation about a review of counter-terrorism policing, which could see powers transferred from scotland yard to the national crime agency.    each proposal by itself may not be agenda-setting or eye-catching.   but the theme is clear.  it represents a further loosening of the grip traditional police structures have had on law enforcement and a recognition that those outside the service have a vital part to play.   the issue that may well dominate the pcc election campaign, however, is crime.  the last set of data, published in october 2015, suggested more than seven million frauds and cybercrimes had been committed in england and wales in the 12 months to the end of june.  it was the first time there had been an estimate of fraud and online offences by the office for national statistics.   if added to the authoritative crime survey, which has been showing a decline in overall offending rates for two decades, fraud would add 5.1 million offences to the total and computer hacking an extra 2.5 million, somewhat blunting the government's proud message that "crime is falling".  what may well have happened is that criminals have switched from burgling houses, stealing cars and robbing people to swindling us online. fraud:  5,110,000 cases - 3,757,000 victims fraud with loss (including those reimbursed):2,648,000 cases - 2,079,000 victims fraud no loss: 2,462,000 cases - 1,856,000 victims computer misuse: 2,460,00 cases - 2,113,000 victims unauthorised access to personal information (including hacking): 404,000 cases - 404,000 victims  computer-virus : 2,057,000 cases - 1,741,000 victims      source: national office for statistics, year ending june 2015 all this has placed fraud and cyber-crime firmly on the law-and-order map, a position that will be cemented in july, when the numbers are automatically included in the crime survey, and then in october when provisional year-on-year comparisons become possible.  there are also tentative signs that incidents of violence, recorded by police, may be increasing too, with knife possession up 9% and murders at their highest level for four years.  police figures, which rely on the public reporting offences and police recording them accurately, must be treated with caution, but the next set of data, published on 21 january, is keenly awaited.  the head of iran's atomic agency says power generation from its first nuclear plant will probably begin in january - two months later than announced.  ali akbar salehi said the apparent delay at the bushehr reactor had nothing to do with the stuxnet computer worm, but gave no other explanation. the russian-built plant was inaugurated in august after several years of delay. it will be internationally supervised. it is not seen by analysts as posing a significant proliferation risk. the process of placing fuel rods at the bushehr facility would be completed in early november, mr salehi, who heads the iranian atomic energy organisation, said on wednesday. "two or three months from then, the electricity generated by the plant will be connected to the grid," he added, pushing the timeframe to early 2011, not november as originally announced. he has previously blamed the fuelling delays on "severe hot weather", and insisted on wednesday that the plant was no longer being affected by the sophisticated stuxnet  computer-virus  that iran's foreign ministry has described a "new game of soft warfare" by the country's enemies. "we implemented measures to protect our computers last year, but during the past two months, these [cyber attack] activities increased dramatically," mr salehi said on state radio. "fortunately, we were able to neutralise the enemy's objective without involving the media. the fact these activities are continuing smoothly is evidence of this," he added. security experts say the worm may have been a state-sponsored attack on iran's nuclear programme that originated in the united states or israel. iran says it needs the bushehr plant, under construction since the 1970s, to meet growing demand for electricity. officials say it will generate 1,000 megawatts, about 2.5% of the country's power usage when it is up and running. iran has been subject to four rounds of un sanctions because of its uranium enrichment programme, which is separate from bushehr. the west fears tehran wants to build a nuclear weapon, but iran insists its plans are for peaceful energy production. petya  ransomware  victims can now unlock infected computers without paying. an unidentified programmer has produced a tool that exploits shortfalls in the way the  malware   encryption  a file that allows windows to start up. in notes put on code-sharing site github, he said he had produced the key generator to help his father-in-law unlock his petya- encryption  computer. the  malware , which started circulating in large numbers in march, demands a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265).  it hid itself in documents attached to emails purporting to come from people looking for work.  security researcher lawrence abrams, from the bleeping computer news site, said the key generator could unlock a petya- encryption  computer in seven seconds.  but the key generator requires victims to extract some information from specific memory locations on the infected drive.  and mr abrams said: "unfortunately, for many victims extracting this data is not an easy task."  this would probably involve removing the drive and then connecting it up to another computer-virus -free computer running windows, he said. another tool can then extract the data, which can be used on the website set up to help people unlock their computer. independent security analyst graham cluley said there had been other occasions when  ransomware  makers had "bungled" their  encryption  system.  ransomware , linux.encoder and one other  ransomware  variant were all rendered harmless when their scrambling schemes were reverse-engineered. "of course," said mr cluley, "the best thing is to have safety secured backups rather than relying upon  ransomware  criminals goofing up." a team of french police dubbed "cybergendarmes" has destroyed a computer-virus  that infected more than 850,000 computers worldwide, authorities say. the network of infected computers, known as a  malicious-bot , was controlled from france and is thought to have made millions of euros from fraud. after a tip-off, the french team located and dismantled the pirate server in the paris region. then they succeeded in disinfecting the computers around the globe. france's c3n digital crime-fighting centre was alerted in the spring by anti-virus company avast to the possible existence of a private server that had apparently sent a computer-virus  called retadup to hundreds of thousands of windows-operating computers, in over 100 countries but mainly in central and south america. the computer-virus  was sent via an email offering easy money or erotic pictures and through infected usb drives, officials explained. web blackout tool team plead guiltyminecraft link to net's biggest  malicious-bot  hackers had then been able to use the computer-virus  to control the computers remotely without owners realising, to create the cryptocurrency monero, extort money through " ransomware " and even steal data from hospitals in israel as well as israeli patients. the operators behind the  malicious-bot  are thought to have made millions of euros since they set it up in 2016 and are still on the run. "we managed to track down where the command server was, the control tower for the " malicious-bot " network of infected computers," c3n chief jean-dominique nollet told france inter radio. then, he says, they made a replica server that rendered the computer-virus  inactive on the infected computers. computer-virus es are usually redirected to dead areas of the internet rather than being disabled. the fbi in the us also helped as the french needed them to block traffic and direct it towards their replica server. "people may not realise it but 850,000 infected computers means massive firepower, enough to bring down all the (civilian) websites on the planet," he said. even well-protected institutions were at risk of being paralysed. mr nollet said they would continue to let the server run so that any infected computers that had not been online for the past few weeks could still be disinfected. nato: cyber-attack on one nation is attack on allbriton who knocked liberia offline jailed iran is running two surveillance operations in cyber-space, targeting more than 1,000 dissidents, according to a leading cyber-security company. the efforts were directed against individuals in iran and 12 other countries, including the uk and us, check point said. it said the two groups involved were using new techniques to install  spyware  on targets' pcs and mobile devices. and this was then being used to steal call recordings and media files. one of the groups, known as domestic kitten or advanced-persistent-threat -50, is accused of tricking people into downloading  malware  on to mobile phones by a variety of means including: repackaging an existing version of an authentic video game found on the google play storemimicking an app for a restaurant in tehranoffering a fake mobile-security appproviding a compromised app that publishes articles from a local news agencysupplying an infected wallpaper app containing pro-islamic state imagerymasquerading as an android application store to download further software the american-israeli company's researchers documented 1,200 victims being targeted by the campaign, living in seven countries. there had been more than 600 successful infections, it said. the second group, known as infy or prince of persia, is said to spy on the home and work pcs of dissidents in 12 countries, extracting sensitive data after tricking people into opening malicious email attachments. the iranian government has not commented on the report. domestic kitten's operation was first identified in 2018. and check point said there was evidence it had run at least 10 campaigns since 2017. four of these were still active, with the most recent beginning in november 2020.  and it was using an iranian blog site, telegram channels and text messages to lure people into installing its infected software, which the researchers have dubbed furball, which could: record calls and other soundstrack the device's locationcollect device identifiers,grab text messages and call logssteal media files, including videos and photos,obtain a list of other installed applicationssteal files from external storage the 600 successful infections are said to have included dissidents, opposition forces and people belonging to the kurdish ethnic minority in: iranthe usgreat britainpakistanafghanistanturkeyuzbekistan the other group, infy, is said to have been operating as far back as 2007.  its most recent activity had targeted pcs, with fake emails with attractive content, usually with an attached document, check point said. one example provided was of a document apparently about loans being offered to disabled veterans. once the document was opened, a spying tool was installed and sensitive data stolen, the company said. two documents recently used are said to have included a photo of an iranian governor, with alleged contact details. the researchers said infy's capabilities were "far superior" to most other known iranian campaigns, thanks to its ability to be highly selective about its targets and to have generally have gone undetected. "it is clear that the iranian government is investing significant resources into cyber-operations," check point cyber-research head yaniv balmas said. "the operators of these iranian cyber-espionage campaigns seem to be completely unaffected by any counter-activities done by others, even though both campaigns had been revealed and even stopped in the past. "they have simply restarted." a text-message scam that infects android phones is spreading across the uk, experts have warned. the message - which pretends to be from a package delivery firm, prompts users to install a tracking app - but is actually a malicious piece of  spyware . called flubot, it can take over devices and spy on phones to gather sensitive data, including online banking details. network operator vodafone said millions of the text messages were already being sent, across all networks. "we believe this current wave of flubot  malware  sms attacks will gain serious traction very quickly, and it's something that needs awareness to stop the spread," a spokesman said.  customers should "be especially vigilant with this particular piece of  malware ", he said, and be very careful about clicking on any links in a text message.  other networks, including ee and three, followed with warnings of their own. the national cyber security centre (ncsc) later issued guidance about the threat, including advice on what to do if you have already downloaded the attacker's application by mistake. "if users have clicked a malicious link it's important not to panic - there are actionable steps they can take to protect their devices and their accounts," the ncsc said in a statement. the  malware  also has the ability to send more text messages to an infected user's contacts, helping it spread.  "the seriousness of these malicious text messages is underlined by vodafone making the decision to alert its customers," said ben wood, chief analyst at ccs insight. "this has the potential to become a  dos-attack  attack on mobile networks, given the clear risk that a rogue application can be installed on users' smartphones and start spewing out endless text messages.  "the broader risk for users is a loss of highly sensitive personal data from their phones," he added. fresh warnings over royal mail parcel scamex-police officer 'devastated' by £3k text scamfake nhs vaccine messages sent in banking scam while text message scams claiming to be about a package delivery firm are common, they have mostly focused on  phishing  - trying to trick the user into filling in a form with bank details and other information. this newest wave differs because it tries to install  malware  on the phone itself - and because of the scale of its spread.  one version of the scam reported online pretends to be a text message from dhl, with a link to a website for parcel tracking. if someone using an android phone clicks on the link, they will be taken to a page "explaining" how to install the parcel tracking app using something called an apk. apk files are a way of installing android apps outside of the secure google play store. by default, such applications will be blocked for security reasons, but the scam page includes instructions on how to allow the installation. that can be confusing, as there are some niche genuine cases for installing those kind of apps - such as downloading the fortnite video game, which was removed from the official app store amid a major legal row between its owner and google.  apple iphone users are not affected as those phones cannot install android apks. in a blog post detailing the scam, security researcher paul morrison wrote that he expects the "success rate would be low" due to the hurdles involved. but he said: "with the number of sms being sent out, just a 0.1% success rate could be very profitable." the flubot  malware  has also spread in other countries in recent months - notably spain, germany and poland. kate bevan, computing editor at consumer magazine which? said people have to be "wary" of texts.  "if you're not sure, contact the delivery company's official customer service helpline," she said. "as ever, it's important to make sure that your mobile phone is up to date with security patches. consider also installing mobile security software from a trusted brand." industry body mobile uk said users who receive a suspicious message should forward it to 7726 to report it, a spokesman said - and then delete the message. dozens of al jazeera journalists were allegedly hacked with the help of  spyware  developed by israeli firm nso group, cyber-security researchers say. details of the alleged hack targeting 36 members of staff, including tv anchors and executives, have been published in a report by citizen lab at the university of toronto. it says a vulnerability in iphone operating system software was used. nso group has denied the allegation, saying it “lacks any evidence". citizen lab researchers say they concluded with “medium confidence” that two attackers who had spied on the phones of al jazeera journalists were doing so on behalf of the saudi arabian and uae governments. “the phones were compromised using an exploit chain that we call kismet,” the researchers write. in july 2020, kismet was a "zero-day" attack - meaning apple was supposedly unaware of the flaw - and it worked on at least ios 13.5.1, and could hack apple’s iphone 11, the latest model at the time. citizen lab was first alerted to potential spying activity on the journalists’ phones when contacted by tamer almisshal, an investigative filmmaker at al jazeera. mr almisshal had expressed concerns that his iphone had been hacked and so allowed citizen lab to monitor activity on the device. “we noticed that on 19 july 2020, his phone visited a website that we had detected in our internet scanning as an installation server for nso group’s pegasus  spyware , which is used in the process of infecting a target with pegasus,” the citizen lab researchers allege in their report. hitting back at the allegations, a spokesman for nso group said: “this memo is based once again on speculation and lacks any evidence supporting a connection to nso.” he added that the firm provided software to governments, who used it tackle serious organised crime and terrorism, and did not operate the software itself. nso group would continue “to work tirelessly to make the world a safer place”, he added. firm 'impersonated facebook to spread  spyware 'israeli  spyware  firm pitches to be covid-19 saviourwhatsapp sues israeli firm over hacking claims the exploit described by the citizen lab team fails to work on iphones running ios 14, the latest version. users should update to this version immediately, the researchers said. a spokesman for apple added that ios 14 was “a major leap forward” in protecting against such attacks. “the attack described in the research was highly targeted by nation states against specific individuals,” he said. “we always urge customers to download the latest version of the software to protect themselves and their data.” the bbc has contacted al jazeera and the london embassies of saudi arabia and the uae for comment. israeli security company nso group impersonated facebook as part of a ploy to get users to install its phone-hacking software, a new report alleges. an investigation from news site motherboard claims a facebook security lookalike domain was set up to spread nso's pegasus hacking tool. it also claimed to have found evidence that servers inside the united states were used to spread the spying tool. nso denies the allegations, labelling them "recycled conjecture". the pegasus  spyware , once installed, can read text messages and other data on the phone, track its location with gps, and access the microphone and camera.  the israeli firm is already locked in a legal battle with facebook, which alleges it deliberately spread its software over whatsapp, compromising hundreds of phones - including those of journalists and human rights activists. it is also, separately, accused of supplying software to the saudi government which was allegedly used to spy on journalist jamal khashoggi before he was killed. facebook's complaint alleged nso operated the  spyware  itself. but nso has asked the court in california to dismiss the case, in part because it says it never uses its  spyware  - only sovereign governments do.  whatsapp sues israeli firm over hacking claimsisraeli  spyware  firm pitches to be covid-19 saviour motherboard's latest investigation revolves around a former nso employee who, it is claimed, provided it with details of a server allegedly designed to distribute the  spyware  by tricking people into clicking links. the server investigated was connected to several different web addresses over a number of years - including one that impersonated facebook's security team, the motherboard report claims. facebook told the bbc it had gained ownership of the domain in question four years ago, to stop it being misused.  other domains used over time included "a link a person could click on to unsubscribe themselves from emails or text messages... and package tracking links from fedex," motherboard reports. but nso fiercely denies that it has ever used its products itself. "we are incredibly proud of our technology's role in tackling crime and terrorism, but nso does not operate any of its products," a spokesman said in a statement. "as we have repeatedly made clear, nso products are offered to and operated solely by verified and authorised government agencies." motherboard also alleged that one of the servers used to launch the  malware  was located within the united states - something that nso says is not possible. facebook has previously made similar allegations in the whatsapp legal case. "we stand by our previous statements that nso group products cannot be used to conduct cyber-surveillance within the united states, and no customer has ever been granted technology that enables targeting phones with us numbers," a spokesman said.  prof alan woodward from the university of surrey said the possibility of us-based servers being used to deploy the  spyware  raised "more questions than answers". "they appear to have some sort of infrastructure in the us," prof woodward said. "the question is whether the us government is aware of it." a facebook spokesperson said: "nso group is responsible for cyber-attacks against human rights activists, journalists, and diplomats, in violation of us law.  "we are committed to protecting the security of our community and are seeking to hold them accountable in court." nso said its official stance remained that which it had put forward in the legal case with facebook. "revisiting and recycling the conjecture of nso's detractors... doesn't change the overall truth of our position, which we have stated to the us federal court in california," it said. "factual assertions on all the above have been provided as part of the official court record, and we do not have anything else to add at this time." a controversial israeli cyber-security company is marketing software that uses mobile phone data to monitor and predict the spread of the coronavirus.  nso group says it is in talks with governments around the world, and claims some are already testing it. the surveillance software-maker is being sued by whatsapp for allegedly sending  malware  to the phones of human rights activists and journalists. it has denied that allegation "in the strongest possible terms". the company also faces a lawsuit in which it is accused of supplying software to the saudi government, which the country is said to have used to spy on the journalist jamal khashoggi before his murder.  last year, nso responded to that claim by saying that its products were "licensed for the sole use of providing governments and law enforcement agencies the ability to lawfully fight terrorism and crime". but now, it is pitching its tools as a means to help better understand how coronavirus is spreading. "the software is here to solve a global pandemic," a spokesman told the bbc.  "this is about giving governments the ability to understand the situation they're facing and make informed decisions. it's a really powerful piece of software."  nso says its employees will not have access to any data, but its software will work best if a government asks local mobile phone operators to provide the records of every subscriber in the country.  each person known to be infected with covid-19 could then be tracked, with the people they had met and the places they had visited, even before showing symptoms, plotted on a map. but john scott railton, of the toronto-based privacy watchdog citizen lab, said governments would be foolish to use the system. "the last thing that we need is a secretive company claiming to solve a pandemic while refusing to say who its clients are," he said. nso gave the bbc a demonstration of how its system works, via a video conference link.  a heat map of israel showed hotspots where there were a high number of cases of the computer-virus .  zooming in, individual phones of people with the infection were mapped, and represented by an anonymised id number. details were also shown of other phones they had encountered and the relevant times and locations. the engineer demonstrating the system said that it could be used to: predict where the next cluster of cases was likely to bewhen to move ventilators to hospitals most in needwhen to allow certain regions of a country to come out of quarantine nso said a number of governments around the world were piloting the system, but would not reveal their identity or whether any of them had started using it in the field. a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exerciselook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreakvideo: the 20-second hand wash a spokesman added that the firm had made it a requirement that the authorities involved were operating in compliance with europe's gdpr privacy law or their own data protection rules. software requiring mobile networks to hand over customer data represents a very different approach from the contact-tracing apps being considered in the uk and many other european countries.  such apps, would use a phone's bluetooth connection to alert users if they had been in contact with someone infected with the computer-virus , and would almost certainly be voluntary to download. citizen lab previously investigated nso's pegasus software. it found evidence that it had been secretly installed on the phones of journalists and dissidents in countries from mexico to the middle east.   "nso has shown that it is uniquely capable of damaging public trust," said mr railton. "i can't think of a better brand name to make citizens nervous about a governmental tracking effort." there has been controversy in israel over a separate project which could see its defence ministry work with nso group to assess the likelihood that individual citizens might spread the coronavirus. defence minister naftali bennet proposed giving nso access to highly sensitive data about citizens collected by the shin bet security services. but israeli lawmakers attacked the plan, warning that handing data to a private company raised serious concerns. messaging app whatsapp has said indian journalists and activists are among some 1,400 people worldwide who were targeted with israeli-made  spyware .  whatsapp filed a lawsuit against nso group on wednesday, alleging it was behind cyber-attacks that infected devices in april and may. the israeli company, which makes software for surveillance, has strongly disputed the allegations. india has 400 million whatsapp users, making the country its biggest market. hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. whatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attackon the frontline of india's whatsapp fake news warwhy india wants to track whatsapp messages "we believe this attack targeted at least 100 members of civil society, which is an unmistakable pattern of abuse," whatsapp said in a statement. after discovering the cyber-attacks in may, whatsapp quickly rolled out a fix, adding "new protections" to their systems and issuing updates. cyber experts at toronto-based internet watchdog citizen lab helped whatsapp identify cases where the suspected targets of this attack were members of civil society, such as human rights defenders or journalists. citizen lab said it had identified more than 100 cases of "abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe, ranging from africa, asia, europe, the middle east, and north america". "indian journalists and human rights activists have been the target of surveillance and while i cannot reveal their identities and the exact number, i can say that it is not an insignificant number," whatsapp spokesperson carl woog told the indian express newspaper. mr woog said the service had contacted each of the people targeted and informed them about the cyber attack. whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are  encryption  end-to-end. this means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. the firm, which was acquired by facebook in 2014, said this was the first time an  encryption  messaging provider had taken legal action of this kind. israel's nso group said it would fight the allegations. "in the strongest possible terms, we dispute today's allegations and will vigorously fight them," the company said in a statement to the bbc. "the sole purpose of nso is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime." a security bug that has infected thousands of smartphones has been uncovered by campaign group the electronic frontier foundation (eff). working with mobile security firm lookout, researchers discovered that  malware  in fake messaging designed to look like whatsapp and signal had stolen gigabytes of data. targets included military personnel, activists, journalists and lawyers. researchers say they traced the  malware  to a lebanese government building. the threat, dubbed dark caracal by the researchers, looks as if it could come from a nation state and appears to use shared infrastructure linked to other nation-state hackers, the report said. the  malware  takes advantage of known exploits and targets mainly android phones. data was traced back to a server in a building belonging to the lebanese general security directorate in beirut, according to researchers. "based on the available evidence, it is likely that the gdgs is associated with or directly supporting the actors behind dark caracal," the report said. "people in the us, canada, germany, lebanon, and france have been hit by dark caracal. targets include military personnel, activists, journalists, and lawyers, and the types of stolen data range from call records and audio recordings to documents and photos," said eff director of cybersecurity eva galperin.  "this is a very large, global campaign, focused on mobile devices. mobile is the future of spying, because phones are full of so much data about a person's day-to-day life." mike murray, vice-president of security intelligence at lookout said: "dark caracal is part of a trend we've seen mounting over the past year whereby traditional  advanced-persistent-threat  actors are moving toward using mobile as a primary target platform." in a statement published on the lookout blog, google said it was confident that the infected apps were not downloaded from its play store. "google has identified the apps associated with this actor, none of the apps were on the google play store. google play protect has been updated to protect user devices from these apps and is in the process of removing them from all affected devices." the researchers believe dark caracal has been operating since 2012 but it has been hard to track because of the diversity of seemingly unrelated espionage campaigns originating from the same domain names. over the years dark caracal's work has been repeatedly misattributed to other cybercrime groups, the researchers said. in november, afghanistan moved to ban whatsapp and telegram as a way to stop insurgent groups from using  encryption  messaging. and in december, iran moved to restrict use of the apps after a series of anti-establishment protests. use of an app that can steal data would give nation states much more information than simply banning them, said prof alan woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the university of surrey. "it is always hard to prove that a nation state is involved. during the cold war, countries made use of mercenaries and that's what we are seeing online now." he said it was unclear where the infected apps had been downloaded from. "google is saying that they were not downloaded from there but it is difficult to know where else they came from. it may be that people are getting suckered into something that looks like an official site. people need to be careful what they are downloading." a programmer who allegedly tried to sell stolen surveillance tools worth $50m (£38m) on the dark web has been caught and charged in israel. the software was reportedly stolen from a security firm called nso group, known for creating surveillance software.  the former nso developer is believed to have stolen the code after learning he was going to be sacked. israel's justice ministry said if the sale had gone ahead it could have harmed state security. in a statement, the ministry said the accused was a senior programmer at nso who had access to the firm's development systems including its stores of source code. the ministry said once the programmer had downloaded company code, he posed as a hacker and sought to sell the software on dark web markets. it is claimed that he asked for a payment of $50m to be made in crypto-cash to make it harder to trace.  the unidentified individual who agreed to buy the software contacted nso before the deal went ahead. a sting was set up and the suspected thief was arrested. daily newspaper israel hayom reported that the indictment against the former nso employee said: "the defendant's ‎actions seriously jeopardised the nso group and ‎could have led to its collapse." the programmer has been charged with theft, intent to compromise national security, pursuing an unlicensed defence transaction and disruption of a computer system. a statement released by the defendant's legal team said its client "never tried to undermine national security". they added: ‎"we believe the court will get to the truth in this ‎case. we will prove these allegations to be ‎disproportionate and baseless." nso ‎group came to prominence in 2016 after being accused of creating software that can overcome security protections on apple iphones.  nso software has also been implicated in a long-running  spyware  scandal in mexico. in response, nso has said it only sells to authorised agencies and has no control over the way its tools are used. three senior opposition politicians in mexico have been targeted by  spyware  on their mobile phones, researchers say. an internet watchdog based in canada, citizen lab, said the surveillance software is only sold to governments. last week, citizen lab also said that 12 journalists and human rights lawyers had been targeted.  at the time, the mexican president, enrique peña nieto, described accusations that the government was involved as false.  mr peña nieto said surveillance software was only used for matters of national security and for fighting organised crime. he added that he had ordered an investigation by the attorney general's office.  citizen lab said the head of the conservative national action party (pan), ricardo anaya, a pan senator, roberto gil zuarth, and the party's communications secretary, fernando rodriguez, were targeted.  "there is strong circumstantial evidence implicating the government of mexico", the watchdog said.   the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by the israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. it is usually sent in a text message to a smartphone.  if the person taps on it, the  spyware  is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - are hacked. international experts investigating the suspected abduction and murder of 43 students in mexico three years ago were targeted with government  spyware , an internet watchdog says. the israeli-made  spyware  was only sold to governments, according to citizen lab, which is based in canada. mexican journalists, human rights activists and opposition politicians have made similar allegations.  mexico's government denies using the  spyware  to snoop on its opponents. it says it has only used intelligence tools in the interest of national security or to fight organised crime. the students, from an all-male college in the southern town of ayotzinapa, were declared dead after disappearing in 2014 in the south-western state of guerrero.  their relatives have accused the authorities of a cover-up. some mexicans have held out hope that members of the group may yet be found alive.  the foreign experts, convened by the inter-american commission on human rights, were called in to investigate the disappearance of the students. the team has repeatedly accused the mexican government of blocking their work. mexican politicians 'targeted by  spyware 'government ‘hacked critics’ phones'mexico missing students: knowns and unknowns citizen lab, which is based at the university of toronto, says in its analysis that it has found forensic evidence to show that the investigators' mobile phones were being targeted by israeli-made  spyware . one member, spanish investigator carlos beristain, said the attempt to install  spyware  could be a "more serious crime given the diplomatic protected status" the group held.  attempts to infect their devices reportedly took place in march 2016, shortly after the group accused the mexican government of hampering its inquiry, and as they were preparing a final report.  the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by the israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. it is usually sent in a text message to a smartphone. if the person taps on it, the  spyware  is installed, and huge amounts of private data - including text messages, photos, emails, location data, the device's microphone and camera - are hacked. one message sent to investigators in march was from someone pretending to pass on personal information about a funeral. "here are the details. i hope you can come," it read.  according to the new york times, the same link was sent last year to an academic trying to impose a sugar tax in mexico and, in that case, the message was confirmed as a pegasus trick.  mr beristain said he had received the message but had not opened it as he suspected some form of espionage.   on the evening of 26 september 2014, a group of 43 mexican students disappeared in guerrero.  they had been studying at an all-male teacher training college that has a history of left-wing activism. before they disappeared, the students reportedly clashed with municipal police while on their way to a protest. police opened fire on their buses.  according to the official government report, the group was then handed over by corrupt officers to members of a local drugs gang. the government version of events says their bodies were burnt in a fire at a rubbish dump. authorities identified one student, alexander mora, from charred bone they said they had found at the site, and they partially identified another.   the international investigators have disputed the fire theory, saying they have yet to find sufficient evidence.  the mexican attorney general has declared them all dead but their relatives still want proof of what happened that night, and justice.  the case is so well known in the country and across latin america that the students are widely known simply as "the 43".  mac users are being warned about new variants of  malware  that have been created specifically to target apple computers. one is  ransomware  that  encryption  data and demands payment before files are released. the other is  spyware  that watches what users do and scoops up valuable information. experts said they represented a threat because their creators were letting anyone use them for free. the two programs were uncovered by the security firms fortinet and alienvault, which found a portal on the tor "dark web" network that acted as a shopfront for both. in a blog, fortinet said the site claimed that the creators behind it were professional software engineers with "extensive experience" of creating working code. those wishing to use either of the programs had been urged to get in touch and provide details of how they wanted the  malware  to be set up. the  malware 's creators had said that payments made by  ransomware  victims would be split between themselves and their customers. researchers at fortinet contacted the  ransomware  writers pretending they were interested in using the product and, soon afterwards, were sent a sample of the  malware . analysis revealed that it used much less sophisticated  encryption  than the many variants seen targeting windows machines, said the firm. however, they added, any files scrambled with the  ransomware  would be completely lost because it did a very poor job of handling the decryption keys needed to restore data. "even if it is far inferior to most current  ransomware  targeting windows, it doesn't fail to encryption victim's files or prevent access to important files, thereby causing real damage," wrote the researchers. the free macspy  spyware , offered via the same site, can log which keys are pressed, take screenshots and tap into a machine's microphone.  in its analysis, alienvault researcher peter ewane said the malicious code in the  spyware  tried hard to evade many of the standard ways security programs spot and stop such programs. mr ewane said mac users needed to start being more vigilant as  malware  creators targeted them. "as os x continues to grow in market share we can expect  malware  authors to invest greater amounts of time in producing  malware  for this platform." statistics gathered by mcafee suggest that there are now about 450,000 malicious programs aimed at macs - far fewer than the 23 million targeting windows users. aamir lakhani from fortinet said mac users should make sure their machines were kept up to date with the latest software patches and be wary of messages they receive via email. "mac  ransomware  is definitely becoming bigger," he told eweek. "although market share is still small, hackers know that there is valuable data on the mac." apple declined to comment on the developments. some of the laptops given out in england to support vulnerable children home-schooling during lockdown contain  malware , bbc news has learned. teachers shared details on an online forum about suspicious files found on devices sent to a bradford school. the  malware , which they said appeared to be contacting russian servers, is believed to have been found on laptops given to a handful of schools. the department for education said it was aware and urgently investigating. can you get a free laptop or cheap broadband?covid 19: the huge challenges of home-schooling a dfe official told bbc news: "we are aware of an issue with a small number of devices. and we are investigating as an urgent priority to resolve the matter as soon as possible. "dfe it teams are in touch with those who have reported this issue." "we believe this is not widespread." geo, the firm which made the laptops, told the bbc: "we have been working closely with the department for education regarding a reported issue on a very small number of devices. we are providing our full support during their investigation.  "we take all matters of security extremely seriously. any schools that have concerns should contact the department for education." according to the forum, the windows laptops contained gamarue.i, a worm identified by microsoft in 2012.  the government has so far sent schools more than 800,000 laptops, as it tries to distribute more than a million devices to disadvantaged pupils who may not have access at home.  "upon unboxing and preparing them, it was discovered that a number of the laptops were infected with a self-propagating network worm," wrote marium haque, deputy director of education and learning at bradford council. she recommended that schools also check their networks "as an added precaution". information security consultant paul moore told the bbc that the gamarue worm "presents a very severe threat to any pc or network". "ideally users should reboot into safe mode and run a full scan with an anti-virus product," he said. "however with this type of  malware , it is advisable to seek professional assistance in order to ensure it has been correctly removed." the  malware  in question installs  spyware  which can gather information about browsing habits, as well as harvest personal information such as banking details. "the fact that these devices were not checked and scrubbed before being sent to vulnerable children is a concern," said george glass, head of threat intelligence at security firm redscan. flaws in apple's ios operating system have been discovered that made it possible to install  spyware  on a target's device merely by getting them to click on a link. the discovery was made after a human rights lawyer alerted security researchers to unsolicited text messages he had received. they discovered three previously unknown flaws within apple's code. apple has since released a software update that addresses the problem. the two security firms involved, citizen lab and lookout, said they had held back details of the discovery until the fix had been issued. the lawyer, ahmed mansoor, received the text messages on 10 and 11 august. the texts promised to reveal "secrets" about people allegedly being tortured in the united arab emirates (uae)'s jails if he tapped the links. had he done so, citizen lab says, his iphone 6 would have been "jailbroken", meaning unauthorised software could have been installed. "once infected, mansoor's phone would have become a digital spy in his pocket, capable of employing his iphone's camera and microphone to snoop on activity in the vicinity of the device, recording his whatsapp and viber calls, logging messages sent in mobile chat apps, and tracking his movements," said citizen lab. "we are not aware of any previous instance of an iphone remote jailbreak used in the wild as part of a  targeted-threat  campaign, making this a rare find." the researchers say they believe the  spyware  involved was created by nso group, an israeli "cyber-war" company. "[it is] the most sophisticated  spyware  package we've seen," said lookout. "it takes advantage of how integrated mobile devices are in our lives and the combination of features only available on mobile - always connected (wi-fi, 3g/4g), voice communications, camera, email, messaging, gps, passwords, and contact lists." this is in many ways a textbook case of the cybersecurity community acting precisely as it should. researchers were alerted to a vulnerability, investigated it, and made apple, the company responsible for fixing it, aware so it could issue a fix. apple, to its credit, understood the severity and acted quickly - it took them just 10 days.  these types of vulnerabilities are rare and extremely lucrative. a genuine "zero day" - the name given to previously unknown security flaws - can be sold for upwards of $1m when it affects a major piece of software like apple's ios. in this case, it looks like several zero days were combined to make a hugely sophisticated attack package.  now attention is shifting to the secretive organisation said to be behind the attack, the nso group, described by researchers as a cyber arms dealer, and described by itself as firm capable of being a "ghost" on victims' devices - working undetected but gathering enormous amounts of private data.  according to privacy international, nso group has sold its products to clients in mexico and in panama - but little is known about other deals involving the company which is said to be worth more than $1bn.  pressure is also being put on francisco partners ltd, the san francisco-based venture capital firm that has a controlling stake in nso group. it is yet to comment on the controversial attack. nso has issued a statement acknowledging that it makes technology used to "combat terror and crime" but said it had no knowledge of any particular incidents and made no reference to the specific  spyware  involved. "these are rather rare zero-day flaws," commented security expert prof alan woodward, referring to the technical name for previously unknown vulnerabilities. "to have several found at once is even rarer. as can be seen from how these have been exploited to date, it represents a serious threat to the security and privacy of ios users.  "apple has been remarkably responsive in providing fixes for these issues, so i would encourage any ios users to update to the latest version of the operating system." for its part, apple has limited itself to saying: "we were made aware of this vulnerability and immediately fixed it with ios 9.3.5. we advise all of our customers to always download the latest version of ios to protect themselves against potential security exploits." a french company offering "invisible pc spy software" has been criticised after it said its product could be used "to find out if your son is gay". listing a series of "clues", the company, fireworld, suggested that "hacking his facebook account" and seeing if he had visited gay websites could confirm a parent's suspicions. the company has since taken down the article.  the post was highlighted by a french youth lgbt rights group. l'amicale des jeunes du refuge's thread about fireworld's article (in french) was retweeted by french secretary of state for equality marlène schiappa, who wrote that it showed that "homophobia and sexism have their roots in the same gender stereotypes. we will fight them together". in its online article, since removed, the firm said that "family is fundamental. that's why the sexual orientation of your children, directly responsible for the continuation of your family, is very important to you". the article went on to list the clues that might cause a parent to suspect that their son might be gay. the article makes no mention of female homosexuality.  they include "taking good care of himself", being more interested in reading and theatre than in football, being shy as a young boy, having certain piercings and liking female singers and divas. it then suggested a variety of ways to be sure, including "monitoring his facebook use", seeing "if he has visited gay forums" and "spying on his private messages". in a response to l'amicale des jeunes du refuge, fireworld wrote that "the article had the sole aim of improving search engine optimisation and was never intended to be read by humans". "we regret not having reflected on the consequences of this type of content..." the firm emailed. "we sincerely apologise to all those who may have felt offended by this content," it added. however, the english language version of fireworld's site suggests a range of scenarios in which a potential customer might want to monitor someone else's computer, including "control your teenage offspring's pc", checking "what your employees are doing" and "detecting infidelity in your marriage or relationship". it is not legal in france to install  spyware  on someone else's computer in order to monitor it, without their knowledge. fireworld points out to customers that they must comply with the law when using their products. however, it says, "installing [its product] to make sure that your children are not endangering themselves on the internet or on social networks, come[s] closer to being legal". french newspaper liberation reports that  spyware  vendors are usually more subtle in their claims for their products, as french law does not allow advertising which incentivises the illegal use of such tools. how can i keep my children safe online?us apps let parents 'spy' on their kidscheap  spyware  used by stalkers there are a range of products on the market that offer parental monitoring and report back to parents on what their children have been doing online. sos homophobie fights against homophobia in francestonewall offers help and advice to the lgbt community throughout the uk on a range of subjectsfamilies and friends of lesbians and gays offer support to parents, families and friends flaws in apple's ios operating system have been discovered that made it possible to install  spyware  on a target's device merely by getting them to click on a link."this is always a possibility with technology. the smarter you get, others as well find smarter techniques in intruding into your devices," says ahmed mansour, the human rights lawyer who discovered the flaw. a  spyware  company faces legal action after a us court ruled that its software was used unlawfully to intercept an unwitting man's messages. javier luis started an online friendship with catherine zang in 2009. her husband used webwatcher  spyware  to track the pair's private emails and online chats over several months, as evidence for divorce proceedings. the us appeal court has now ruled 2-1 that mr luis can sue the software firm awareness technologies. mr luis claims the software, which logged web history, searches, chat logs and email threads, illegally intercepted his communications with ms zang. legal action by mr luis against mr zang and other unnamed parties has been settled. but mr luis pursued his case against awareness after a district court initially dismissed his claims against the company. while the two never met in person, mr luis said he developed "a caring relationship" with ms zang.  mr zang grew suspicious that his wife was conversing with other men, and installed the webwatcher software on a shared computer to intercept her messages in real time. he read copies of the messages on the webwatcher servers, and used the information to divorce ms zang on terms favourable to him in 2010. webwatcher is marketed as parental monitoring software for ensuring children are using technology appropriately. its terms of use require that the software is only installed on devices belonging to the purchaser or with permission to monitor a phone or computer belonging to someone else. awareness technologies denied mr luis' assertions that it intercepted the communications - illegal under the us wiretap act - arguing it merely stored them as data. it claimed that the term intercept applied only to situations in which a device captures a communication "either before [it] reaches the intended recipient or contemporaneous with the transmission not after it reaches the destination where it is placed in electronic storage."  the court of appeals disagreed. it concluded that mr luis "has indeed alleged enough facts to reasonably infer that awareness intercepted his communications". awareness has been contacted for comment.  the case has now been sent back to the lower court for it to continue. the oscar-winning director of a documentary investigating the murder of jamal khashoggi says he does not believe saudi arabia's crown prince will ever face formal investigation for his killing. a newly-released us cia report has implicated mohammed bin salman in the death of the saudi journalist, who was killed in the saudi consulate in istanbul in october 2018. bryan fogel's film the dissident explores what happened to khashoggi and who might have ordered his murder. his body has never been recovered and the saudi crown prince has denied involvement. in november 2019, five men were tried and sentenced to death in a saudi court for khashoggi's killing and three others were jailed. the death sentences were later commuted to 20 years in prison. using transcripts obtained from the turkish government, fogel's film suggests that khashoggi, a journalist for the washington post who had exiled himself to the us, was suffocated and then dismembered inside the consulate. the film also investigates the use of  spyware  and phone hacking against saudi activists living in exile. these include canada-based video blogger omar abdulaziz, with whom khashoggi was in close contact before his death. biden raises human rights in call with saudi kingwhat happened to jamal khashoggi? "i don't believe the crown prince is ever going to face an interpol arrest warrant that'll pick him up when he lands his private jet somewhere and haul him off to the hague or extradite him to istanbul or the us," says fogel. "that's never going to happen.  "this is the environment that we find ourselves in, which is constantly in conflict with human rights. leaders like mohammed bin salman see their money can buy their way out of these sorts of events, and there isn't accountability unless there's a cumulative and combined effort from countries." fogel says he welcomes a re-evaluation of ties between the us and saudi arabia under the biden administration, citing the close relationship the two countries had during donald trump's presidency. "biden's definitely not following the playbook of donald trump," the us director comments. "signing off [on] the declassification and releasing the cia findings into khashoggi's murder is a blow to us-saudi relations." according to fogel, the recent release of human rights activist loujain al-hathloul after almost three years in detention is "clearly a peace offering to the biden administration". released saudi activist's family 'want justice'saudi woman activist jailed despite global outcry "there appears to be support from both democrats and republicans to re-examine the relationship with saudi arabia in the light of the war in yemen, so time will tell," he continues. fogel's last investigative film, icarus, won an oscar in 2018 for exposing the scandal of state-sponsored russian doping in athletics. the dissident was also critically acclaimed following its world premiere at the sundance film festival in 2020, yet fogel queries why global streaming services including amazon and netflix have not bought the film for their platforms.  "i think the film lays bare that unfortunately there is a contrition and a cowardice amongst these huge companies to take on subject matter that might affect their shareholder value, or their business or investor interests, even though they know hundreds of millions of people would be interested in watching the film," he argues. fogel is also critical of amazon owner jeff bezos, the world's richest person, who also owns the washington post, the newspaper that employed khashoggi. "he chose not to acquire this film for global distribution on his platform," fogel says. "but a few months later, he acquired souq, the so-called amazon of saudi arabia." amazon actually acquired souq.com in 2017, subsequently rebranding it as amazon.ae. "is amazon still doing business with saudi arabia? yes," says fogel. "is he actually standing up for the murder of his employee? he's certainly made some statements, but actions speak louder than words." fogel's film includes footage of a 2017 vigil held near the saudi consulate in istanbul which bezos attended and spoke at. "i'm not mad at any of these companies," the director goes on. "it's business. but it's disappointing as this sort of behaviour eventually allows murders like jamal khashoggi's to happen, and when there's no standing up for content like this it becomes increasingly difficult for filmmakers like myself. but i'm optimistic that the climate will change." the aim of the dissident, its director says, is not to make "an archival film". "it's to make a living, breathing thriller that looks deeply into khashoggi's murder and the ramifications of it," he contends. fogel also interviews khashoggi's fiancée, turkish scientist hatice cengiz, as well as omar abdulaziz, whose activism was financially supported by khashoggi. khashoggi fiancee sues saudi crown princesaudi court commutes khashoggi death sentences the film puts forward the theory that this act may have tipped jamal khashoggi into being viewed as an activist and dissident himself, rather than just an outspoken journalist. "but i think even in the final weeks of jamal's life he never saw himself as a dissident," fogel argues. "he was holding onto the notion that he was a journalist. yet what you see in the film is that the work he was doing and what he was writing about made him one, at least as we understand it. "jamal khashoggi was someone who wanted to make his country a better place and was silenced in the most horrific way," fogel concludes. "in the film, you'll see that the choice he faced was either to stay in saudi arabia and be silent, or leave saudi, risk his life and go into exile and speak truth to power. it cost him his life." the dissident will have its uk premiere online at the glasgow film festival on 6 march. follow us on facebook, or on twitter @bbcnewsents. if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. surveillance software which can snoop on mobiles, tablets and pcs was stolen from the vendors, hacking team, last month.the attackers published the software on several internet sites making it openly available to download.  uk security firm, 4armed, gave bbc click's dan simmons a live demonstration of the mobile phone  spyware  that has been sold to more than 30 governments and intelligence agencies globally.  4armed said that using it to spy on someone without their consent would be against the law.this is additional online-only content from clickmore at bbc.com/click and @bbcclick.  a leading catalan pro-independence politician has accused the spanish government of spying on his mobile phone. roger torrent, speaker of the catalan parliament, spoke out after details of the alleged espionage were revealed in a joint investigation by the guardian and el pais newspapers. mr torrent said it was proof of "political spying against political opponents" in spain. madrid has denied the allegations. the guardian and el pais newspapers reported that mr torrent had been warned that his phone was targeted last year using pegasus, an israeli-made  spyware  tool. the makers of the tool say it is only sold to governments to track criminals and terrorists. mr torrent was warned about the  spyware  by researchers working with whatsapp.  speaking on tuesday, mr torrent called for a full investigation into what happened. "this is the first time that we have concrete confirmation of what many of us knew and had been denouncing... we knew that illegal practices were being directed against the independence cause. now we have certain proof," he said. catalan crisis in 300 wordscatalonia's quarrel with spain explained the office of spanish prime minister pedro sánchez denied the accusations. a spokeswoman told afp news agency the government was not aware that mr torrent and another former catalan lawmaker "had been subjected to a hacking attack via their mobile phones". "in spain, any intervention concerning a mobile phone is always done legally," she said. catalonia's drive for independence has plunged spain into its biggest political crisis in 40 years. the region had its autonomy suspended for almost seven months by madrid after a failed bid to break away in 2017. in october last year, spain's supreme court sentenced nine catalan politicians and activists to jail terms of between nine and 13 years for that independence bid.  stalkers and abusers are increasingly using cheap  spyware  to monitor and harass their victims, claims a charity. tracking and listening devices, often disguised as everyday objects, retail online for under £50 and are easy to install, says the digital-trust. there are no official figures but "digital abuse" is often experienced by victims of domestic violence, it adds. people with abusive partners should also be wary of gadgets given to their children, the charity warns. "eighteen months ago i issued advice to domestic violence groups about fathers gifting smartphones or even allowing them to take them on access visits because it is so easy for abusers to use them as surveillance," said jennifer perry, chief executive of the newly formed digital-trust. "i recommend children are given inexpensive pay as you go phones when visiting an abusive parent." ms perry said incidents of digital abuse - ranging from surveillance to accessing voicemails, emails and cloud accounts, is escalating in the uk. in addition cheap surveillance devices - small gps trackers, listening devices and cameras hidden inside books, lamps, plug sockets and carbon monoxide detectors, are freely available online despite some of them being illegal. "if i have a domestic violence victim i assume there will be some type of digital abuse - it's not the exception, it's the assumption," she told the bbc. ms perry added that in her experience it is more likely to happen to female victims. "i get a lot of criticism for saying it but i don't see this level or type of surveillance used against male victims," she added. "i see men using it against women. it is rare to see a man targeted surveillance-wise by women." ms perry began working in the field of e-crime in 2005. she said that often victims need very specific advice, which is not easily available. "safety advice is often done by topic but if you don't know what you're looking for it doesn't help," she added. "we'll ask a series of questions that deal with the symptoms - are you being harassed by your partner? is he showing up where you are? has he had access to your house or your pc?" smartphone owners may have not set up their device themselves so may not know what has been installed on it, she added. "the main thing i try to do is stop any form of data leaking. that's my number one objective," ms perry said. "if you have a stalker and they get access to some information about you it's like the rush they get from a gambling addiction. "you're taking about jealous or obsessive personalities. one stalker googled a colleague of mine 40,000 times in a year. another looked at someone's facebook page 2,500 times in one month." criminal organisations are offering subscription services to other fraudsters to teach them a scam in which they impersonate their victims. fraud prevention organisation cifas said fraudsters were sharing tips and getting more sophisticated in their attempts to steal money. cases of a particular scam targeting shoppers, which often spikes at christmas, have tripled this year. criminals harvest personal information then buy items in someone else's name. the so-called facility takeover fraud sees victims reveal personal or financial information to someone they believe is genuine, such as supposed bank staff.  criminals then use this information to access bank or credit card accounts to order items in the victim's name. online banking accounts can also be taken over as a result of  phishing ,  spyware  or  malware  scams on computers. cifas - a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies - said its intelligence team had seen evidence of criminals charging each other for information on the dark web. this is the part of the internet that is invisible to search engines. criminals have long shared so-called sucker lists, detailing people who they have previously tricked in a scam and could be potential victims again. there were 7,461 reports in the retail sector from january to september recorded by cifas, compared with 2,365 in the same period in 2019. there was also a big rise in cases of fraudsters using the same kind of scam to order mobile phones. cifas said techniques used by criminals were becoming more sophisticated as they were finding new ways to circumvent security measures put in place by companies.  beware christmas parcel delivery scams, banks warnbanks 'too often blaming customers' for fraud mike haley, chief executive of cifas, said: "we often notice a spike in this activity over the festive period, and so i would urge everyone to remain vigilant if contacted by anyone claiming to be from an organisation they trust, such as a bank, mobile phone company or even the police." last month, banking trade body uk finance warned criminals were using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through  phishing  emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud an "extremely complex" and "stealthy" spying program has been stealing data from isps, energy companies, airlines and research-and-development labs, a security company has said. with a "degree of technical competence rarely seen", regin had probably taken years to develop, symantec said.   and a nation state may have written it to serve its spying agencies' needs. the program had been used in "systematic spying campaigns" over the past six years, symantec said. aimed at windows users, regin slowly infiltrated its targets, taking care at each stage to hide its tracks, the company said. "many components of regin remain undiscovered and additional functionality and versions may exist," it added.  "its design makes it highly suited for persistent, long-term surveillance operations against targets." jason steer, director of technology strategy at security firm fireeye, said: "these types of toolkits have existed for a few years now." he added: "it's a challenge to the whole security industry as to how they find these malicious and sophisticated pieces of code," security firms were better at spotting such things even though regin and its ilk were built to fool modern-day tools that look for malicious programs and monitor activity to spot anything suspicious. the techniques regin used to sneak on to a network and communicate with its creators were very complicated, he said. "it's clearly been written by someone that has much more than making money in mind," he said. mr steer said the tip-offs about regin and similarly sophisticated threats often came from government agencies who kept an eye on the cyber spying capabilities of both friendly and hostile nations.  victims had been infected via spoofed versions of well-known websites and by exploiting known vulnerabilities in web browser software, said symantec in a detailed analysis.  in a blogpost, security company f-secure said it had first encountered regin in 2009 after investigating what was making a server on the network of one of its customers crash repeatedly. closer investigation revealed the culprit to be regin which was attempting to insert itself into the heart of the software controlling the server. chief research officer mikko hypponen said: "finding  malware  of this calibre is very rare.  "we're still missing big parts of the puzzle." "nevertheless, it's obvious this is a very complicated  malware  written by a well-equipped nation-state." he added that the  malware  did not look like it originated in china or russia - the places suspected of creating many other stealthy, spying programs. security firm kaspersky lab said it too had spotted regin being used to infiltrate networks and steal data. in one attack, regin was used to gather administrative details for a mobile phone network in the middle east that, if used, would have given attackers control over the system.  symantec said it had captured the first copies of regin in a small number of organisations between 2008 and 2011. soon after, the  malware  had appeared to have been withdrawn, but a new version found in 2013 was now being actively used.  only about 100 regin infections have so far been identified. it is believed to provide the ability to: remote access victims' computers remotelytake screenshotscontrol a mouse pointersteal data recover deleted files symantec said that regin had a lot in common with other malicious programs such as flame, duqu and stuxnet, also thought to be written by nation states to aid their spying efforts. intelligence agencies' secretive techniques for spying on mobile phones are seldom made public. but a uk security firm has shown the bbc how one tool, sold around the world to spooks, actually works. it allows spies to take secret pictures with a phone's camera and record conversations with the microphone, without the phone owner knowing. hacking team's software was recently stolen from the company by hackers and published on the web. almost any data on a phone, tablet or pc can be accessed by the tool and it is fascinating how much it can do. when joe greenwood, of cybersecurity firm 4armed, saw that source code for the program had been dumped online by hackers, he couldn't resist experimenting with it. although he had to fiddle with the code to make it work, it only took a day before he had it up and running. the software consists of the surveillance console, which displays data retrieved from a hacked device, and  malware  planted on the target device itself. 4armed was careful to note that using it to spy on someone without their consent would be against the law. after testing the software on his own pc, mr greenwood soon realised the scope of its capabilities.  "you can download files, record microphones, webcam images, websites visited, see what programs are running, intercept skype calls," he told the bbc. the software even has some in-built features to track bitcoin payments, which can be difficult to associate with individuals without additional data about when and how transactions were performed. in a live demonstration of the system, mr greenwood showed how an infected phone could be made to record audio from the microphone, even when the device was locked, and use the phone's camera without its owner knowing. "we can actually take photos without them realising.  "so the camera in the background is running, taking photos every number of seconds," explained mr greenwood. it was also possible to listen in on phone calls, access the list of contacts stored on the device and track what websites the phone user was visiting. both mr greenwood and 4armed's technical director, marc wickenden, said they were surprised by the sleekness of the interface.  both point out, though, that customers could be paying upwards of £1m for the software and would expect it to be user-friendly, especially if it was intended for use by law enforcers on the beat. for the tracked user, though, there are very few ways of finding out that they are being watched. one red flag, according to mr greenwood, is a sudden spike in network data usage, indicating that information is being sent somewhere in the background. experienced spies, however, would be careful to minimise this in order to remain incognito. at present, spy software like this is only likely to be secretly deployed on the phones and computers of people who are key targets for an intelligence agency. the version of the  spyware  distributed online is now likely to be more easily detected by anti-virus programs because companies analysing the source code are in the process of updating their systems to recognise it. security expert graham cluley said it should be as easy to detect as  malware . "the danger will be that malicious hackers could take that code and augment it or change it so it no longer looks like hacking team's versions, which might avoid detection," he added. the best course of action, said mr cluley, is to keep operating systems and software as up to date as possible. in a statement, a spokesman for hacking team said it advised its customers not to use the software once the breach was discovered. "as soon as the event was discovered, hacking team immediately advised all clients to discontinue the use of that version of the software, and the company provided a patch to assure that client surveillance data and other information stored on client systems was secure.  "from the beginning hacking team has assumed that the code that has been released is compromised," he said. the spokesman added that the software would be operated by clients of hacking team, not hacking team itself, and therefore no sensitive data relating to ongoing investigations had been compromised in the breach. "of course, there are many who would use for their own purposes the information released by the criminals who attacked hacking team. "this was apparently not a concern of the attackers who recklessly published the material for all online.   "compiling the software would take considerable technical skill, so not just anyone could do that, but that is not to say it is impossible," he said. a leading computer security company says it has discovered one of the most sophisticated pieces of  malware  ever seen.  symantec says the bug, named regin, was probably created by a government and has been used for six years against a range of targets around the world. once installed on a computer, it can do things like capture screenshots, steal passwords or recover deleted files.   experts say computers in russia, saudi arabia and ireland have been hit most. it has been used to spy on government organisations, businesses and private individuals, they say.  researchers say the sophistication of the software indicates that it is a cyber-espionage tool developed by a nation state.  they also said it likely took months, if not years, to develop and its creators have gone to great lengths to cover its tracks. sian john, a security strategist at symantec, said: "it looks like it comes from a western organisation. it's the level of skill and expertise, the length of time over which it was developed." symantec has drawn parallels with stuxnet, a computer worm thought to have been developed by the us and israel to target iran's nuclear program.  that was designed to damage equipment, whereas regin's purpose appears to be to collect information.  ebay is barring listings for a smartphone after reports the model is pre-installed with  spyware  in its chinese factory. a german security firm reported on tuesday that the android-powered star n9500 sent personal data to a computer server in china, adding that the  spyware  could not be removed. it said the  malware  was disguised as the legitimate google play store app. the handset remains on sale on amazon, which could not be reached for comment. but ebay said it was rolling out the ban globally. "due to reports that some star 9500 smartphones are loaded with  spyware , ebay is not allowing the sale of these devices as a precautionary measure," a spokesman told the bbc. although the brand star is far from being a household name, the handset may have appealed to some customers because of its close resemblance to the samsung galaxy s4 coupled with the fact it sells for about a third of the cost. security firm g data said it was alerted to the case after receiving tip-offs from its customers. "the  spyware  runs in the background and cannot be detected by users," it said. "unbeknownst to the user, the smartphone sends personal data to a server located in china and is able to covertly install additional applications.  "this makes it possible to retrieve personal data, intercept calls and online banking data, read emails and text messages or control the camera and microphone remotely. "the program also blocks the installation of security updates." the associated press news agency has reported that although several shenzhen-based firms used ebay and other sites to sell the model, it had been unable to track down the manufacturer. if the allegations are true, it is not known whether the manufacturer itself would have been aware of what was being done at its plant.  this is not the first time that a chinese factory has been accused of shipping devices preinstalled with  malware . in 2012 microsoft reported that several pc makers in the country had been found to load malicious programs onto their computers. then, last year german firm e-plus reported that some of its china-made android smartphones were being shipped with sd memory cards infected with a computer worm. if you thought you were pretty clever knowing that  spyware  refers to pieces of malicious code put on computers in order for cybercriminals to steal your passwords and other ids, think again. these days it has a much more literal sense, at least if the latest documents leaked by former us national security agency (nsa) contractor edward snowden to the der spiegel newspaper are to be believed. the documents allege that spies are regularly using tools more usually associated with cybercriminals. it is alleged uk spy agency gchq operatives created fake web pages that injected  malware  into the computers of engineers running one of belgium's largest telecommunications companies in order to be able to access its systems. "we have to realise that a number of gchq staff are indeed hackers,  but licensed by the state and protected by the intelligence services act 1994 and ministerial warrant," said digital forensic expert prof peter sommer. "they will deploy every type of hacker trick to achieve their aims." it is a view endorsed by dwayne melancon, chief technology officer of security firm tripwire and a man used to looking at malicious code as part of his daily job.  "it seems you can't throw a rock these days without hitting a nation state surveillance operation," he said. it raised some pretty fundamental questions about whom we trust online, said prof alan woodward, security expert and lecturer at surrey university, who has undertaken consultancy work for gchq. "when the criminals start to look like law enforcement, that is a very dangerous practice," he said. "where do you draw the line? is it with engineers who control machines or should they be allowed to have  malware  on everyone's pc 'just in case' they want to use it as a route to some high value target?" there is now a growing body of evidence to suggest that the use of  malware  is standard practice for the police as well as the intelligence services. in the summer it was revealed that the fbi used mobile  malware  to infect and control a suspect's handset. and in september the fbi admitted that it had planted hidden code on the dark net, a part of the internet favoured by cybercriminals because it is unreachable by standard search engines. security researchers who dissected the code found it exploited a security hole in firefox, which reported back to a mysterious server in northern virginia.  meanwhile leaked german police documents suggest that the federal criminal police office is working on its own surveillance software, which it hopes to have ready by the end of 2014.  prof sommer said: "i'd hope that the intelligence service uses highly targeted  malware .  "so if they target someone specifically, they send an email with a booby trap - but they will only be sending it to the target and the  malware  wouldn't have any self-replicating properties." but mr melancon is not so sure, particularly if the authorities are using so-called "watering hole" websites, which are popular with specific groups of users. in the belgian case, gchq is alleged to have targeted linkedin and tech news site slashdot in order to lure the engineers it was targeting. "such sites are notoriously indiscriminate," said mr melancon. " you can limit the risk of accidental infection of uninvolved persons, but you can't eliminate that risk entirely.  "collateral damage and inadvertent surveillance of non-targeted individuals is almost certain."  the other big question raised by the allegations published by der spiegel is just whom the spooks are after. if you hear the word "target" from an intelligence agency, you probably assume they are referring to a terrorist or some other individual intent on harm.  what the belgian case reveals is that engineers can also be targets. so is it ethical to put  malware  on the computer of an innocent employee who just happens to have access to a computer system you may want to look at? "if the result is damaging or destroying data or property, then it could certainly be deemed unethical by a reasonable person.   "likewise, violating the civil liberties of an individual crosses the ethical line. you can rationalise damage to engineers by lumping them into a collective as part of 'their organisation', but this is very subjective," said mr melancon. for its part, gchq offered a pretty standard response to the particular allegations about breaking into belgian servers. "all gchq's work is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework, which ensure that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight, including from the secretary of state, the interception and intelligence services commissioners and the intelligence and security committee," it said. the only way to be sure you too do not become a "target" is to "consider all networks untrustworthy", according to robert hansen, technical evangelist at whitehat security. "unfortunately, there isn't much hope for the individual because most of the things that would otherwise secure the user have historically been controlled by groups that have close ties to the government," he said. he is talking about the companies that register websites and  encryption  certificates. sir tim berners lee, inventor of the world wide web, has described attempts by spy agencies to crack  encryption  as "appalling and foolish". but through it all the general public seems to have been remarkably sanguine. prof sommer said: "in germany and the us people are outraged but in the uk that is less the case.  "people are rather proud of what gchq did during the war and they think it probably is not going to affect me." what the snowden leaks have dispelled once and for all is any lurking suspicion that the security forces are some bumbling johnny english sort of outfit. "the fact is that intelligence agencies are using advanced techniques actually more advanced than those used by criminals," said amichai shulman, chief technology officer of security firm imperva. "we have enough proof now that governments do have the necessary technology and personnel that can effectively fight cybercrime. they just chose to put it to a different use." germany's justice minister has called for a national and state level probe into the use of controversial computer software to spy on people. the german state of bavaria has admitted using the  spyware , but claimed it had acted within the law. three other states have also confirmed they have used  spyware  in order to investigate serious criminal offences, a german newspaper reports. use of the software was exposed by a german hacker group. the berlin-based chaos computer club (ccc) said it had analysed a "lawful interception"  malware  programme called federal  spyware , used by the german police force. they found that, once installed, the programme allows its operators to monitor exactly what the user is looking at - from which websites they have visited, to the emails they send and receive and the calls made through skype. "the  malware  cannot only siphon away intimate data but also offers a remote control or backdoor functionality for uploading and executing arbitrary other programs," the group wrote on its website. the program, it said, had "significant design and implementation flaws", which made "all of the functionality available to anyone on the internet". the ccc had analysed a laptop allegedly belonging to a man accused of illegally exporting pharmaceuticals. his lawyer claims the  spyware  program was installed on his client's computer when it passed through airport customs. bavaria interior minister joachim herrman has confirmed that state officials have been using the software since 2009 - though he made no mention of any specific incidents - and insisted that they had acted within the law. however, he promised a review of the software's use. the german broadcaster deutsche welle reported on tuesday that three other states - baden-wurttemberg, brandenburg and lower saxony had confirmed using  spyware , although it is not clear if all four states had used the same software. justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger has called on the federal and state governments to launch an investigation into the matter. "trying to play down or trivialise the matter won't do," she said. "the citizen, in both the public and private spheres, must be protected from snooping through strict state control mechanisms." the bbc's stephen evans says the incident has sparked a row because germans, given the country's nazi and communist past, feel strongly about spying on citizens. germany's constitution stipulates strict protection against it, he adds. with whatsapp confirming that its software was used to install  spyware  on phones, many are considering deleting the popular messaging app. however, experts say this is not the answer. there has been considerable outrage and worry in many countries including india, after whatsapp confirmed that some of its users were targeted with  spyware .  some in the country have pointed fingers at the government, accusing them of being behind the hack, given that the group accused of creating the software, nso group, reportedly sells only to governments.  whatsapp has sued the company over the allegations, which it has strongly rejected. the indian government has also denied involvement.  some users have been looking at options other than whatsapp, including messaging apps like signal or telegram, believing that they are more secure. but experts say that whatsapp, an app used by approximately 1.5 billion people in 180 countries and 400 million in india, is bearing the brunt of a hack that is not completely its fault.  while a vulnerability in the app's video-calling feature allowed the  spyware  to go through without user intervention, it ultimately took over the phone because of gaps in the phone's operating systems. "the vulnerabilities the  spyware  exploited were at the level of the operating system, be it android or apple," vinay kesari, a technology lawyer specialising in privacy, said.  "if there's  spyware  in your handset, everything that is readable or even whatever that comes through your camera or mic is at risk," technology writer prasanto k roy said.  whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are  encryption  end-to-end. this means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. "in this case, it doesn't matter if the app is end-to-end  encryption  or not - once  spyware  is on your handset, hackers are able to see whatever is on your phone as you see it - this is already decrypted and in a readable form at this stage," mr kesari said.  "you may as well have unlocked your phone and handed it over," he added. "but importantly, this breach shows just how vulnerable operating systems are." much of the chatter has focused on switching to other messaging apps, particularly signal, which is known for its open source code - but does that mean your phone would be better protected against  spyware ? not necessarily, they say. "with signal, there is an added layer of transparency because they release their code to the public - so if you are a sophisticated coder, and the company says they have fixed a bug, you can access the code and see for yourself," mr kesari said.  "but that doesn't mean the app has an added layer of protection against such attacks." mr roy told the bbc that the attack went beyond the app.  "for those whose handsets were compromised, all their information was at risk - not just whatsapp," mr roy said.  as of now, there is no reason to believe that whatsapp is "any less safe" than other apps, he added.  in april, faustin rukundo received a mysterious call over whatsapp from a number he did not recognise.  he answered, but the line was silent and then it went dead. he tried calling back but nobody answered. he didn't know it but his phone had been compromised. as a rwandan exile living in leeds, mr rukundo was already privacy conscious. he searched for the number online and found the dialling code was from sweden.  strange, he thought. but he soon forgot about it.  then the number called once more. again nobody picked up.  there were also missed calls from other numbers he did not recognise and he began to get worried about his family's safety, so he bought a new phone.  within a day, the unknown number called again.  "i tried to answer and they hung up before i heard any voice," mr rukundo told the bbc.  "whenever i called back, no-one answered. i realised something was wrong when i started seeing files missing from the phone. "i spoke to my colleagues at the rwanda national congress and they too had similar experiences. they were getting missed calls from the same numbers as me." the rwanda national congress is a group that opposes the rwandan regime. it was not until may, when mr rukundo read reports that whatsapp had been hacked, that he realised what had happened.  "i first read the story about the whatsapp hack on the bbc and thought, 'wow, this could explain what's happened to me,'" he said. "i changed my phone and realised my mistake. they were following my number around and putting the spy software on each new device by calling the same number."   for months, mr rukundo was convinced that he and his colleagues were some of the estimated 1,400 people targeted by attackers exploiting the flaw in whatsapp. but it was only confirmed to him this week following a call from citizen lab at the university of toronto. for six months, the organisation has been working with facebook to investigate the hack and find out who was affected.  researchers there say: "as part of our investigation into the incident, citizen lab has identified over 100 cases of abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe." mr rukundo's profile as an outspoken critic of the rwandan regime is consistent with the sort of people who were targets for this  spyware . it was allegedly built and sold by the israel-based nso group and sold to governments around the world. hackers used the software to spy on journalists, human rights activists, political dissidents and diplomats. mr rukundo says he has not had any calls since the original hack, but the experience has made him and his family feel paranoid and scared. "honestly, even before they confirmed this, we were gutted and terrified. it looks like they only bugged my phone for around two weeks but they had access to everything," he told the bbc. "not only my activity during that time but my whole email history and all my contacts and connections. everything is watched, the computers, our phones, nothing is safe. even when we talk, they could be listening. i still don't feel safe." mr rukundo fled rwanda in 2005 when critics of the government were being arrested and jailed. he says he fought to have his wife released after she was kidnapped and detained for two months on a family visit in 2007. facebook, the owner of whatsapp, is attempting to sue the nso group. the nso group denies any wrongdoing. in court documents, facebook accuses the company of exploiting a then-unknown vulnerability in whatsapp. the app is used by approximately 1.5 billion people in 180 countries.  the service is popular for its end-to-end  encryption , which means messages are scrambled as they travel across the internet, making them unreadable if intercepted. the filing at the us district court of northern california describes how the  spyware  was allegedly installed.  the powerful software known as pegasus is an nso group product that can remotely and covertly extract valuable intelligence from mobile devices, by sharing all phone activity including communications and location data with the attacker.  whatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attackwhatsapp sues israeli firm over phone hacking claims in previous  spyware  attacks, victims have been tricked into downloading the software by clicking on booby-trapped web links. but with the whatsapp hack, facebook alleges that it was installed on victims' phones without them taking any action at all.  the company says that between january 2018 and may 2019, nso group created whatsapp accounts using telephone numbers registered in different counties, including cyprus, israel, brazil, indonesia, sweden and the netherlands. then in april and may, the victims were attacked with a phone call over whatsapp, it is claimed. the filing says: "to avoid the technical restrictions built into whatsapp signaling servers, defendants formatted call initiation messages containing malicious code to appear like a legitimate call and concealed the code within call settings. "disguising the malicious code as call settings enabled defendants to deliver it to the target device and made the malicious code appear as if it originated from whatsapp signaling servers." the victims would be completely unaware that they had been bugged. in some cases the only thing they noticed were mysterious missed calls in whatsapp logs.  the document states that facebook: believes the hack was an abuse of its computer networkwants an injunction stopping the nso group having any access to its platforms.accepts that nso group was allegedly carrying out the hacks on behalf of its customers, but facebook is going after the company as the architects who created the software nso group has been accused of supplying the  spyware  that let the killers of journalist jamal khashoggi track him down.  nso group denies involvement in that incident and says it will fight these latest allegations. "in the strongest possible terms, we dispute today's allegations and will vigorously fight them," the company said in a statement to the bbc.  "the sole purpose of nso group is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime." india's main cyber security agency, cert, has asked users to update whatsapp on their phones after the discovery of a potential vulnerability on older versions of the messaging app.  the potential issue could have been triggered by a video file sent from an unknown number. whatsapp said that it had no reason to believe users' phones were affected. news of the new issue came soon after whatsapp admitted that its software was used to install  spyware  on phones. facebook, which owns whatsapp, had announced the fix for the new vulnerability in the system a few days ago. pegasus breach: will quitting whatsapp make your phone safer?whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by  spyware  cert said that if users opened the video file, the software installed itself on the phone - in similar fashion to the pegasus  malware , which is believed to have been used against journalists and activists.  the agency added that the vulnerability would have allowed attackers to access phones and make changes to the device, no matter where it was geographically located.  the issue would have required requires users to open the video file, unlike the more sophisticated pegasus which activated itself through a vulnerability in whatsapp's video calling function and did not require the call to be answered. the messaging app has also said it has issued a security update that should take care of the issue.  india has 400 million whatsapp users, making the country its biggest market. an ultra-orthodox jewish town with one of the highest rates of coronavirus cases in israel has been placed under effective lockdown. residents of bnei brak, just outside tel aviv, will only be allowed out in exceptional circumstances. only some key workers will be allowed in. a senior health official said almost 40% of the town probably had the computer-virus , though his claim was refuted. overall, more than 7,000 israelis have been infected and 37 have died. across the country, people have been told to stay within a 100-metre (330 ft) radius of their homes; public gatherings have been banned; and anyone going outdoors has been told to cover their face with a mask or scarf. prime minister benjamin netanyahu, who is in voluntary self-isolation despite testing negative for the disease, has warned that further restrictions might be imposed to try to curb the spread of the computer-virus . bnei brak was declared a "restricted zone" at a cabinet meeting on thursday night. earlier, police set up cordons around the town to reduce the flow of traffic moving in and out. the latest measures mean residents will only be allowed out of the town on a case-by-case basis. non-residents - other than security forces, essential services workers and journalists - will not be allowed in. coronavirus: a ticking time-bomb for the middle eastisraeli  spyware  firm pitches to be covid-19 saviour about 4,500 elderly residents - those deemed most at risk - will be evacuated from the town and quarantined in specially designated hotels, according to the jerusalem post newspaper. soldiers from the israeli military's paratroopers brigade were being deployed to help the homefront command, the paper said. bnei brak is only second to the much larger city of jerusalem in terms of the total number of coronavirus cases. on thursday, the head of the maccabi health service used by about half the 200,000-strong population of bnei brak told a parliamentary committee that about 38% of residents were likely to have the computer-virus , and that there were probably tens of thousands of cases which had not been officially confirmed. however, israeli media later reported that according to the ministry of health and maccabi officials the figure was the result of a miscalculation. there has been growing disquiet in israel about the slowness of some ultra-orthodox communities to adopt official measures to reduce the spread of the computer-virus . many ultra-orthodox live within large families in crowded neighbourhoods. their access to the internet and social media is also limited for religious reasons, meaning news and information from the outside world is comparatively poor. in some strictly religious communities, gatherings for prayer and celebrations including weddings have continued to take place, despite the nationwide ban.  however, two days ago prime minister netanyahu noted that there had been a "very positive shift" in the attitude of the ultra-orthodox towards the seriousness of the computer-virus . correction 9 april 2020: this article has been amended to include an assertion that the claim by the maccabi health service official about the likely infection rate in bnei brak was based on an erroneous calculation. it was the week when we learned that a missed whatsapp call could plant  spyware  on your phone and when san francisco moved to ban facial recognition technology.  on tech tent we explore our attitudes to technology which can catch criminals - but also be used to track our every move. listen to the latest tech tent podcast on bbc sounds when whatsapp's owner facebook spotted a flaw in the app, which allowed an intruder to plant  spyware  on a phone with one missed call, it was unusually open about who might be behind it. the firm briefed journalists that the attack had "all the hallmarks" of a private company that works with governments to deliver  spyware  that takes over mobile phones. it was widely assumed that the company in question was israel's nso group, which has previously been accused of selling  spyware  called pegasus to agencies which use it to monitor human rights activists.  the university of toronto's citizen lab, which monitors digital attacks against civil society, has been tracking the nso group for some years.  its senior researcher john scott-railton tells tech tent that facebook's decision to be so upfront about who was responsible, suggests that it was "pretty fed up with the behaviour of the private  spyware  company". he says citizen lab had previously seen nso's pegasus  spyware  used to track dozens of journalists, lawyers and every kind of activist in mexico, via the old-fashioned method of persuading them to click on a link. but last sunday they had spotted the new method exploiting the flaw in whatsapp being used to target - unsuccessfully - a london-based human rights lawyer who works with some of the mexico activists. he says the  spyware  is quite insidious: "once it gets on to a phone, that phone is basically like a spy in the victim's pockets, the microphone can be turned on,  encryption  chats can be taken off the phone, private photographs, and so on." nso group insists that its products have been used by law enforcement agencies in the battle against terrorism and wider criminal behaviour.  the israeli firm said in a statement: "nso's technology is licensed to authorised government agencies for the sole purpose of fighting crime and terror.  "the company does not operate the system and, after a rigorous licensing and vetting process, intelligence and law enforcement determine how to use the technology to support their public safety missions."  since earlier this year, the company has been majority owned by novalpina, a london-based private equity group whose chairman stephen peel is now on the board of nso. we asked him for an interview. he was not available but his pr team pointed us to an open letter written in april - before the whatsapp hack emerged - to a number of ngos including citizen lab. at some length it defends the previous conduct of the israeli firm and promises that under novalpina's ownership there will be a constant focus on respecting human rights: "we expect each company within our portfolio to act with integrity and in a manner that is socially responsible." another company under the spotlight over surveillance technology is amazon. at its annual general meeting next week, its shareholders will debate a motion calling on the company to stop selling its facial recognition system to the us government. the vote comes just after san francisco became the first city to ban its public bodies from using facial recognition, amid mounting disquiet about intrusive surveillance in public places. mary beth gallagher, representing catholic institutions investing in amazon, says there are concerns both about the quality of the technology and the way it could be used: "even if it's 100% accurate we don't want it to be used by law enforcement because of the impact it could have on society." just like nso, amazon insists its technology is used in really positive ways, such as helping to find victims of child trafficking.  but, asked whether it should be monitoring potential misuse of facial recognition by its clients, amazon web services tech evangelist ian massingham insists it is not their job: "the  right organisations to handle those issues are policy-makers and government." surveillance technology - whether that is facial recognition or  spyware  - is a very lucrative industry, shrouded in secrecy. but the companies behind it can themselves expect far closer monitoring from now on. listen to the latest tech tent podcast on bbc sounds  indian officials are likely to cite the whatsapp snooping controversy to push through a plan to compel digital companies to store data of indian users locally, multiple reports say.  tech experts confirmed that multiple government departments and agencies have proposed such demands. it was "a serious issue of national security", and "requires measures, including data localisation", officials were quoted as saying. experts called it a "bizarre response".  "this makes no sense at all. the location of the data had nothing to do with the pegasus breach," technology expert prasanto k roy told the bbc.  "whatsapp was very transparent about the breach and reported it to the authorities. what is important now, is to find out who did it and how." whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by  spyware pegasus breach: india denies whatsapp hack amid outragewhy india wants to track whatsapp messages "data localisation completely goes against the whole concept of the internet which is a global network," he added. reports have quoted government officials as saying that they wanted user data stored locally as the pegasus breach "compromised national security". hackers were able to install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. targets received video or voice call requests from an unknown number - which even if ignored, allowed the  spyware , known as pegasus, to be installed on the device.  this allowed users to remotely access everything on the phone, including text messages and location. whatsapp fixed the vulnerability as soon as it was discovered and informed affected users. it also filed a lawsuit against israeli firm nso group, alleging it was behind the cyber-attacks that infected devices in april and may. nso group, which makes software for surveillance, says it only works with government agencies and strongly denied responsibility for the attacks. activists and politicians pointed fingers at the state after whatsapp revealed indian journalists and activists were among those targeted. the government has denied the claims. however, it has also repeatedly refused to discuss the issue in parliament.  it refused to answer questions about who had authorised the attacks and instead cited a controversial law that specified the right of agencies to monitor and decrypt information in national security interest. it also tried to stop a parliamentary committee on cyber security from discussing the matter, saying it did not fall under the purview of the panel. amy says it all started when her husband seemed to know intimate details about her friends. "he would drop snippets into conversations, such as knowing about sarah's baby. really private things that he shouldn't have known about. if i asked how he knew these things, he'd say i'd told him and accuse me of losing it," she says. amy - not her real name - also began to wonder how he seemed to know where she was all the time. "sometimes he would say he saw me at a cafe where i was meeting my friends and say he was just passing by chance. i started to question everything and trust no-one, even my friends," she says. for months, these incidents built up, turning an abusive marriage into a nightmare that came to a chilling conclusion after a halloween family trip. "we'd been to visit a pumpkin patch and were having a rare good weekend, which basically means my husband hadn't taken anything out on me. our six-year-old son was playing on the floor and was so happy," amy says. "my husband passed me his phone to show me a picture he'd taken at the farm and in that split-second i saw an alert pop up on his screen. it read, 'daily report on amy's mac is ready to view.' "i felt this chill go through me and i stopped breathing for a minute. i had to excuse myself and pretended i needed the bathroom. i had to be there for my son and pretend that i hadn't seen anything. "the first moment i could, i went to the library to use the computer and look up the  spyware  he'd used. that's when everything made sense after months of thinking i was going crazy." stalkerware - also known as spouseware - are powerful surveillance software programs typically sold openly online. on a device, all messages can be read, screen activity recorded, gps locations tracked and cameras used to spy on what an individual is doing. according to cyber-security company kaspersky, the number of people who have discovered such software on their devices has risen by at least 35% in the past year. kaspersky researchers say their protection technologies have detected stalkerware on 37,532 devices so far this year.  and principal security researcher david emm says this is the "tip of a very large iceberg". "most people will routinely protect a laptop or desktop, not that many people actually protect a mobile device," he says. "this information is coming back from installations of our product on [smartphones]... so this figure doesn't even go close to what the total would be." webwise: an introduction to  spyware the apps that let parents 'spy' on their kids spyware  use in domestic violence 'escalating' kaspersky's findings indicate russia is the country with the highest levels of stalkerware activity. india, brazil, the united states and germany complete the top five, with the uk in eighth place with 730 detections. another security company says there are practical steps people can take if they suspect they are already being spied on. "it's always advisable to check which apps are on your phone and conduct a computer-virus  scan where necessary and if there are any apps on your device that you do not recognise it is worth searching online for reviews and deleting them," says jake moore, from eset. "as a general rule, if you aren't using an app, delete it." once amy realised her computer had been compromised, she developed a severe mistrust of technology, which she is only just overcoming. charities say this is a common psychological response to such a trauma.  jessica was another victim of stalkerware. her ex-husband routinely spied on her through her phone's microphone and would play mind games by repeating specific phrases she and her friends had used in private conversations. it's been years since she escaped the relationship but she still leaves her phone locked in the car when seeing friends. gemma toynton, from domestic abuse charity safer places, says she see this long-term effect a lot in her cases.  "it reduces someone's trust," she says. "it makes them see a phone or laptop as a weapon, because that's what it's been used for. "technology has become, in their minds like a net around them and a lot of people do withdraw from using the internet. "it really does impact your whole life. the fact that this stalkerware is on the rise is a real concern." amy, who is from the us, is now divorced and lives many miles away from her ex-husband.  she has a restraining order preventing him from direct contact with her and he is legally allowed to communicate logistics about their son's care via written letter only. i tested out one of the most popular consumer products, which costs £140 for three months of surveillance. i bought it online and installed it on to my work phone. it took me about an hour and i used the 24-hour live support offered by the company when i encountered any problems.  spyware  companies advertise their services as "employee monitoring" or "parental control" products.  in many countries, including the uk, using the  spyware  on a spouse without their permission is illegal, so many of the companies' websites are littered with disclaimers advising against this. however, some of the same websites link to articles, seemingly written by associates, recommending the software as a spy tool for "cheatings wives and husbands".  in a live chat with the company whose product i was testing, i directly told them: "i want to install this on my wife's phone, will it be secret?"  the customer service-representative responded: "the application will start to work in stealth mode right after installation. i'll be happy to help." i also downloaded five of the top cyber-security products on to the infected mobile and carried out a free scan.  all of them gave alerts for "potentially harmful software".  the crown prosecution service says there aren't specific laws related to the use of stalkerware but any criminal activity like this can be prosecuted by a number of means including the protection from harassment act 1997. amy says more should be done to legislate against the use of these technologies.  "they need to stop hiding behind plausible deniability," she says.  "there is a wink that's given when they send this little disclaimer that says, 'we don't approve of you spying on wives.' they know what their customers are doing though. this software causes real harm." a scam call centre that targeted thousands of british victims has been raided by the indian police, following a bbc investigation. panorama broadcast hacked footage from inside the call centre which showed how staff charged people hundreds of pounds to fix non-existent computer problems. the owner of the call centre, amit chauhan, denied it was a scam but declined to answer detailed questions. mr chauhan is now in custody after police raided the call centre. it was located in the gurugram suburb of delhi, and mr chauhan is due to appear in court on thursday. the programme had also obtained the recordings of 70,000 calls where victims were being ripped off in the uk, america and australia. indian police are appealing for british residents who paid money to the call centre to contact them by email at shocybergrg.pol-hry@gov.in watch on iplayer: spying on the scammers perry adams was one of those who lost money after a bogus warning appeared on his computer, saying it had been infected with pornographic  spyware . he said he will be contacting the indian police with his evidence. "i think that it's superb the work that panorama has done on behalf of the victims, to catch someone who thought they were untouchable. there's nothing to stop him opening up somewhere else, so i'll be interested to see what happens in court," he said. hundreds of thousands of people are employed in legitimate call centres in india, but there are also dozens of call centres running scams. indian police say it is a difficult crime to prosecute because all of the victims are overseas, and they need evidence from victims in order to bring charges. panorama obtained its evidence from an online vigilante who goes by the name of jim browning. he had hacked into the call centre's computer system and taken control of the cctv cameras in the building. messaging service whatsapp will no longer work on millions of smartphones from 1 february. android and iphone devices which only support outdated operating systems will no longer be able to run the facebook-owned app.  whatsapp said the move was necessary in order to protect the security of its users.  smartphones using android 2.3.7 and older, and iphone ios 8 or older, are those affected by the update.  the operating systems that whatsapp is dropping support for are legacy operating systems, which are no longer updated or installed on new devices. most users will simply be able to update their operating systems in order to continue using the messaging service.  whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by  spyware facebook's sir nick clegg criticised over whatsapp security however, certain devices, such as the iphone 4, which only supports ios 7, will no longer be compatible with the app.  "whatsapp clearly had no option but to ensure its service remains secure, however it faces the difficult side-effect that the app is no longer compatible with older smartphones," said ccs insight analyst ben wood.  "this is likely to disproportionally impact the long-tail of its users, particularly in growth markets where there is a high proportion of older devices." whatsapp, which was one of the most-downloaded apps of the decade, first warned users that these changes would happen back in 2017.  "this was a tough decision for us to make, but the right one in order to give people better ways to keep in touch with friends, family, and loved ones using whatsapp," said a spokesperson for the company.  it is the latest in a series of moves after the messaging app withdrew support for numerous devices in 2016, and then from all windows phones on 31 december, 2019. indian activists and politicians are pointing fingers at the state after whatsapp revealed indian journalists and activists were among those targeted with  spyware  on its platform.  whatsapp has filed a lawsuit against israeli firm nso group, alleging it was behind the cyber-attacks that infected devices in april and may. nso group, which makes software for surveillance, says it only works with government agencies. the government has denied the claims.  "these attempts to malign the government of india for the reported breach are completely misleading," a government statement read, adding that it would take "strict action" against those responsible for the attack. india has also asked whatsapp for a detailed explanation, information and technology minister ravi shankar prasad said in a statement on twitter.  nso group has also denied the allegations against them. "in the strongest possible terms, we dispute the allegations and vigorously fight them," nso group said in a statement to the bbc. "the sole purpose of nso is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime," it added.  hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. targets received video or voice call requests from an unknown number - which even if ignored, allowed the  spyware , known as pegasus, to be installed on the device. this allowed users to remotely access everything on the phone, including text messages and location. whatsapp has not disclosed the number of indians targeted.  "while i cannot reveal their identities and the exact number, i can say that it is not an insignificant number," whatsapp spokesperson carl woog told the indian express newspaper. indian news site scroll says it has confirmed that at least 17 individuals, including activists, scholars and journalists, were affected by the breach.  "the profile of the private indian citizens targeted in this case suggests the involvement of state agencies in india," technology writer prasanto k roy told the bbc. "these people are all activists, journalists and lawyers who work with or represent tribal people and dalits (formerly untouchables) in sensitive areas where people have clashed with the state." mr roy added that the list of people targeted so far is very specific. "i can't think of a single foreign government, not even pakistan, who would be interested in these particular private citizens." lawyer nihalsing rathod, who has defended human rights activists arrested after caste-based violence broke out in the western state of maharashtra in august 2018, told bbc marathi that his phone had been targeted.  the arrests of the activists had been sharply criticised by many as a "witch hunt" against those who challenged the governing bharatiya janata party (bjp). another of those targeted  is bela bhatia, a writer and human rights lawyer who has alleged constant harassment by police in the volatile central state of chhattisgarh.  with 400 million users, india is the biggest market for the facebook-owned company. however, it is not the first time that the messaging platform has found itself in trouble with local authorities.  a spate of lynchings driven by rumours of child kidnappings circulating on whatsapp prompted indian authorities to demand that the company do something to curb the spread of misinformation on its platform.  whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by  spyware why india wants to track whatsapp messageswhatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attack whatsapp then took several steps, including advertising in newspapers and limiting the number of forwards a single user could send to five. it also marked messages that had been forwarded with a label.  since then, the government has gone a step further by saying that it would introduce new rules in january 2020 that would allow it to monitor, intercept and trace social media messages. in response, whatsapp has said this would not be possible, "given the end-to-end  encryption " the app uses.  soon after it discovered the cyber-attacks in may, the company rolled out a fix, adding "new protections" to their systems and issuing updates. cyber-experts at the university of toronto's citizen lab helped whatsapp identify more than 100 cases of "abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe, ranging from africa, asia, europe, the middle east, and north america". its decision to sue nso group is the first time an  encryption  messaging provider has taken legal action of this kind whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are  encryption  end-to-end. this means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. years ago, when indian artist indu harikumar fell in love, she thought it was the perfect romance. but within months, the live-in relationship began to unravel - there were frequent fights, mostly over what she was posting on the internet. "i had no idea what would trigger him. whenever i would share a photo or a selfie on social media, he would get upset about who's liking my photo, who's commenting on it," ms harikumar told the bbc.  since she didn't want to make him angry, she trimmed her friends' list, unfriended her exes and restricted access to male friends.  "even when he was not present, i was thinking for him - before putting a post, i was trying to anticipate how he would react? soon, i was putting the same restrictions on my life offline too. i was walking on eggshells."  but that didn't help - he still found things to get angry about. "one day, he got upset by a random tweet that someone had put out saying 'i'll do anything for a person with a nose stud'. a friend with a sizeable number of followers tagged me and commented, 'then you should look at indu.' "i had not seen the tweet, but my partner sent me a message saying 'you have pimps in high places'," she says, adding that it was not the only abuse she'd faced online. ms harikumar's latest crowd-sourced instagram art project - lovesexandtech - draws from her own personal experiences and those of other women of "online abuse". it's supported by take back the tech, a global campaign to make digital space safer for women. online abuse is pervasive globally and a lot of it is directed at women. they are trolled for their politics or opinions, many often complain of receiving threats of rapes and sexual assault. in 2017, amnesty international polled 4,000 women from eight countries and found that 76% of women who were abused on social media restricted their use - 32% said they had stopped expressing opinions on some issues. in india too, the report said, that increasing access to the internet had resulted in more women facing online abuse for participating in public life and sharing their opinions on social media platforms.  campaigners say online abuse has the power to "belittle, demean, intimidate and eventually silence women".  but the nameless, faceless trolls are one thing, a much bigger problem is how does one deal with abuse from their loved ones?  the artist painting women's breast storiesgaslighting: the 'perfect' romance that became a nightmareindia 'fails' victims of abuse  that is what lovesexandtech is documenting - how gender-based violence in intimate relationships leads to a shrinkage of the space women occupy online. ms harikumar says when she first put out a post in august asking women to share their stories about "restrictions, surveillance and control placed by intimate partners", she didn't think she would get many responses. she initially called her project love, sex and violence but then "i realised that in india, a lot of violations are not even considered violence, especially the emotional ones". so, she spelt it out in greater details, explaining that "this could be anything from the threat to make a chat you shared with them public or with friends, threatening to leak your nude photos or leaking them, causing you emotional, physical or sexual harm for talking to someone online or posting something that they don't approve of, or adding  spyware  to your devices". within days, ms harikumar says, lots of women responded with their stories of having faced "gaslighting, control, slut-shaming, emotional violence and manipulation".  "i didn't think i'd get such a lot of stories," she says, adding that many women said they had suppressed their trauma for long and found that sharing their stories was "cathartic". at the same time, they wanted their stories to serve as a warning to others who found themselves in a similar situation. one woman, who wrote in saying she was "very conscious of her body", spoke about her shock on finding out that her lover had shared her nude photo online without her consent. "three weeks after he'd shared it, he showed it to me saying 'hope you take it in the right spirit'. he was pleased that so many men said they desired me sexually.  "he said, 'these men can only desire you, but i alone can have you.' i called him a pervert. he said he did it because he wanted me to feel good about my body. but i felt so violated." another wrote in saying she stopped posting selfies because every time she posted one, her boyfriend would berate her, telling her it was her way of seeking validation. yet another said her partner badgered her until she shared her email password with him saying "you're hiding something or you're talking to other men". and another woman said her partner used her thumb to unlock her phone as she slept and later shamed her over a video she had watched online. almost all the women, ms harikumar says, narrated experiences similar to her own - that in an attempt to make their relationship work, they'd stopped talking to their exes, deleted them from their friends' list, and stopped posting selfies. they had also removed photos showing cleavage, or where they were smoking or drinking. "they were deleting their history in an attempt to appear good. most women take refuge in the 'good girl narrative'. it's universal - it keeps them safe. we are told women can only be of two kinds - mother mary or a slut.  "so, we think if we are good, things will pan out okay. we often blame ourselves when things go wrong." but what is heartening, she says, is that the women who "sent in their stories said they'd realised that they were being abused and stood up to their abusers". one woman wrote in about how she stood up to her ex-boyfriend when he threatened to send her photos to her dad. "i'll tell him your daughter is a slut," he said.  another said her ex-boyfriend threatened to share her nudes online when she broke up with him. he backed down when she threatened to call the police on him. "the worst thing is if you don't stand up to your abuser, then more than feeling hatred for them, you feel anger towards yourself. you blame yourself for not standing up for yourself," ms harikumar says. through lovesexandtech, she says, she is trying to document stories of women acknowledging the abuse, standing up to their abusers, and taking back control of technology to reclaim the virtual space that is rightfully theirs. "historic"; "a breakthrough"; "a game-changer"; "a betrayal": there is no shortage of epithets for this month's sudden announcement - by president trump - that the united arab emirates (uae) is to fully normalise its relations with israel.  after egypt's peace treaty with israel in 1979, followed by jordan's in 1994, this makes the uae only the third arab country to normalise relations. it is the first of the six arab gulf states to do so. oman. bahrain and possibly morocco are widely expected to follow. discreet contacts between the uae and israel had been under way for years but still, the details and timing of this normalisation deal were kept secret right up to the last minute. there were no consultations between the uae foreign ministry in abu dhabi and its arab neighbours. almost everyone was taken by surprise, most of all the palestinians, who called it "a stab in the back" since they have yet to come close to getting a state of their own or ending israeli occupation.  "for the palestinians, there is zero upside here," comments emile hokayem from the london-based international institute for strategic studies. for the uae's de facto ruler crown prince sheikh mohammed bin zayed (known as mbz), this deal is something of a gamble but one with the odds heavily in his favour.  the risk is it could make the uae leadership highly unpopular in the wider arab world where some social media postings have been calling it "a sell-out". were the israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu to renege on his promise to temporarily shelve annexation of parts of the west bank then that would be extremely embarrassing for the emiratis and possibly see the whole deal unravel.  but such a move would also draw disapproval from the white house and besides, popular street protests are not usually tolerated in the gulf.  "in the short term, the pitfalls for the uae are very limited," says mr hokayem. "this deal is not going to affect the uae regime's stability. it reflects the changing geopolitics of the region and it buys the uae a lot of goodwill in the us, where its image has been tarnished by its involvement in the yemen war." israel and uae strike historic peace dealwhat does trump’s mid-east plan say on key issues?explainer: israel, annexation and the west bank so what is behind this deal and what's in it for this relatively young gulf nation and former british protectorate that only became a sovereign nation in 1971? in short, it is two things - strategic advantage and technology.  the uae, along with bahrain and saudi arabia, has a deep mistrust, even a fear, of its giant, heavily-armed neighbour across the water: iran.  gulf arab leaders look at the map of the region and they note how, despite crippling sanctions, iran's strategic presence has advanced rapidly across the middle east ever since the bulwark of saddam hussein's regime was removed in iraq.  where once iran was largely confined to its national borders, today it has proxy militias in iraq, syria, lebanon and yemen. israel shares this concern, especially when it comes to iran's secretive nuclear programme.  then there is what is known as "islamism" or "political islam", a transnational concept often embodied by the muslim brotherhood and one which certain gulf arab rulers view as an existential threat to their dynastic monarchies. no-one dislikes the muslim brotherhood more fervently than the uae crown prince and this has led to the uae backing anti-muslim brotherhood factions as far away as libya while seeing its interests clash increasingly with those of turkey's islamist government.  in practice, this has led to the formation of an unofficial partnership of conservative middle eastern governments, a de facto club to which israel, with its formidable intelligence capabilities, is now being admitted as an associate member. and there is technology, including biotech, healthcare, defence and cyber surveillance. here, the uae already has form, having purchased israeli-manufactured  spyware  some years ago to keep an eye on its own citizens. the uae has deep pockets - it has vast oil reserves and a per capita gdp of nearly $40,000 (£30,000). it also has ambitions globally, and beyond, having just become the first arab country to send a mission to mars.  israel is by far the most technologically advanced country in the middle east, with cutting-edge inventions. if this alliance works out it could propel the uae to a new level of prosperity and international prestige, while safeguarding future jobs for its citizens.  israel's overtures to the gulf go back some way. in 1995, shortly before israel's prime minister yitzhak rabin was assassinated by a jewish extremist, he sent his foreign minister shimon peres on an official visit to oman and qatar. low-key israeli trade offices then opened up in both countries' capitals. i remember calling up their office in muscat for a comment - the israeli representative inadvertently answered the phone with the hebrew greeting "shalom" before quickly changing it to the arabic "salaamu aleikum".  the trade initiative withered away after mr netanyahu became prime minister, israel intervened in lebanon and the second palestinian intifada erupted. but more recently quiet diplomacy between israel and the gulf states has accelerated as a fear of iranian expansionism has become the prime preoccupation. bahrain, oman and qatar may well follow the uae if this month's announcement passes without major incident. saudi arabia may take longer. but back in 2002 it was the saudis who launched the crown prince abdullah peace plan at the beirut arab summit, offering israel full recognition in exchange for a return to its pre-1967 borders. the deal briefly put israeli pm ariel sharon on the spot but days later hamas carried out bombings and all talks were off. today the middle east is a very different place and what was then unthinkable is now a reality.  "guess what were the most searched-for words online in the uae immediately after the deal was announced?" said an emirati official. "it was 'hotels in israel'. a lot of people can't wait to visit!" adobe has patched a new flash security flaw that was being used by attackers to install spying tools on victims' computers. the security bug was delivered using malicious flash files embedded in microsoft word documents, sent as an email attachment to targets.  when the document was opened, the finspy  malware  would secretly install itself. the vulnerability was discovered by russian security firm kaspersky lab. the flaw was discovered by kaspersky lab researchers on 10 october. they found that the attacker - thought to be a group called blackoasis - was targeting the governments of various countries who are members of the united nations, as well as oil and gas companies in several regions. in the uk, activists and several non-governmental organisations (ngos) were targeted by the attackers, but not government agencies.  kaspersky contacted adobe on the same day it discovered the exploit, and adobe published the patch on monday 16 october.  finspy is a surveillance software product developed by anglo-german firm gamma international. it is a legal spying tool that is used by law enforcement agencies around the world for lawful surveillance during criminal and anti-terror investigations.  "what is unusual about blackoasis is that they are using legal surveillance tools to hit other nation states," costin raiu, the director of kaspersky's global research & analysis team told the bbc. "this is unusual because everybody was using these tools for lawful surveillance in their own countries." due to the numerous security issues relating to adobe flash, the software is now gradually being phased out. however, some older websites still use it, so web browsers now come with protections to prevent attackers from exploiting flash to sneakily install  malware  on consumers' computers. this has proved effective in curtailing flash exploits in the web browser, so to make the attack work, blackoasis appeared to have embedded a flash file in a microsoft word document, because this stops the typical protections from working. mr raiu thinks that microsoft should consider blocking certain types of files from launching when word documents are opened. he recommended that consumers install the patch for flash even if they don't think they are using it on their computers, because it might still be installed.  "the most worrying thing in this story is that tools produced by these companies specialising in lawful surveillance are being used to fuel cross-country espionage and contribute to the increasing climate of world cyber war," said mr raiu. "the creator of the tool is a uk company, and then it is used to spy on british targets. i just find the whole concept a bit worrying." india's ban on 59 chinese apps, including the wildly popular tiktok and wechat platforms, has left millions of users surprised and disappointed. the government in delhi said the apps were "prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of india, defence of india, security of state and public order". tiktok denied sharing any data with the chinese government. beijing said it was "strongly concerned" about the ban.  experts describe the ban as a political move amid rising bilateral tensions. tiktok star faces uncertain future after app ban anti-china sentiment has been high in india since the clashes earlier this month at the disputed border between the two nuclear-armed neighbours left 20 indian troops dead.  china gave no details on whether there were any chinese casualties. the fighting occurred in the himalayan region of ladakh, where both countries have increased deployment close to the disputed border.  calls to boycott chinese goods soon emerged, and the government issued directives to cancel or limit chinese contracts with public sector companies.  but the ban on the apps took many by surprise. the list includes the microblogging platform weibo, the strategy game clash of kings, alibaba's uc browser, and e-commerce apps club factory and shein. the app makers have said they are in talks with the indian government, while beijing has asked india to reconsider its decision. "we want to stress that chinese government always asks chinese businesses to abide by international and local laws-regulations. indian government has a responsibility to uphold the legal rights of international investors including chinese ones," ani news agency quotes chinese foreign ministry spokesperson zhao lijian as saying. india's ministry of information technology has said the ban was the result of "many complaints from various sources" about apps that were "stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users' data in an unauthorised manner". many of the chinese apps have been linked to controversies over data privacy, and have been accused of sharing sensitive information with the chinese government. us senators have even called for an investigation into tiktok, which fiercely rejects such claims. the indian government said in its statement that, "the compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of india, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of india, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures". this isn't the first time chinese apps have been banned in india. in 2017, alibaba's uc browser came under scrutiny for allegedly leaking mobile data of indian users. and that year, india's defence ministry asked all armed personnel and officers to uninstall 42 chinese apps it classified as " spyware ", according to media reports.  some, however, believe that the timing of the ban - amid escalating tensions - is not coincidental, but rather a response to the events at the border. "this is a purely political move," nikhil pahwa, the editor of medianama, a media watchdog, told the bbc. "i don't think it will affect the apps - maybe the number of the users [will drop] but it will only have a minor impact on [their] revenue," mr pahwa said. the ban is already affecting millions of users across india, who are unable to use the blacklisted apps. "as china has shown, governments can indeed block apps - not just remove them from the app stores, which has already happened in india, so you can't install them afresh or upgrade an existing install," says tech policy expert prasanto k roy.  he adds that although there are ways to get around the ban, it will "effectively kill" popular apps. "if over 95% of 100 million users exit, that kills the 'network effect' and most of the content, and hence an app like tiktok is no longer attractive." india is tiktok's biggest foreign market, with an estimated 120 million active users. tiktok allows users to publish and share short videos.  in the years since it has launched in india, the app has become a platform for indians of all ages and classes - from police constables to housewives - who  dance, sing and perform for their followers. the app has turned many ordinary indians into social media stars.   and mr roy says the ban will hurt all indians who were making money and business connections through these apps. "the thousands of tiktok influencers who were making a living off the platform and the many indian traders and businessmen who need to connect to people in china and do that over wechat —this cuts them off." he agrees that there is cause for concern around how the apps treat user data, but he says the response should be in the form of a privacy law, which india doesn't have.  "it's a soft strike at the chinese, payback for the claimed border violations and recent violent conflict," he adds. tiktok's parent company, bytedance, told the bbc, it is "committed to working with the [indian] government to demonstrate our dedication to user security and our commitment to the country overall. nikhil gandhi, tiktok's india head, said on twitter that the company had been invited to meet "concerned government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications." other app makers are yet to respond to the ban. experts say that most of these firms will try to lobby policy makers but they are not likely to be allowed as long as tensions continue at the border and anti-china sentiments remain high in the country.  hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices using a major vulnerability in messaging app whatsapp, it has been confirmed. whatsapp, which is owned by facebook, said the attack targeted a "select number" of users and was orchestrated by "an advanced cyber-actor".  a fix was rolled out on friday.  on monday, whatsapp urged all of its 1.5 billion users to update their apps as an added precaution.  the surveillance software involved was developed by israeli firm nso group, according to a report in the financial times.  why the whatsapp spies may have eyes on iran facebook first discovered the flaw in whatsapp earlier in may. whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are end-to-end  encryption , meaning they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device.  however, the surveillance software would have let an attacker read the messages on the target's device. some users of the app have questioned why the app store notes associated with the latest update are not explicit about the fix. "journalists, lawyers, activists and human rights defenders" are most likely to have been targeted, said ahmed zidan from the non-profit committee to protect journalists. android open the google play storetap the menu at the top left of the screentap my apps & gamesif whatsapp has recently been updated, it will appear in the list of apps with a button that says openif whatsapp has not been automatically updated, the button will say update. tap update to install the new versionthe latest version of whatsapp on android is 2.19.134 ios open the app storeat the bottom of the screen, tap updatesif whatsapp has recently been updated, it will appear in the list of apps with a button that says openif whatsapp has not been automatically updated, the button will say update. tap update to install the new versionthe latest version of whatsapp on ios is 2.19.51 it involved attackers using whatsapp's voice calling function to ring a target's device.  even if the call was not picked up, the surveillance software could be installed. according to the ft report, the call would often disappear from the device's call log.  whatsapp told the bbc its security team was the first to identify the flaw. it shared that information with human rights groups, selected security vendors and the us department of justice earlier this month.  "the attack has all the hallmarks of a private company reportedly that works with governments to deliver  spyware  that takes over the functions of mobile phone operating systems,” the company said on monday in a briefing document note for journalists.  what is  encryption ?what we know about the secretive nso group the firm also published an advisory to security specialists, in which it described the flaw as: "a buffer overflow vulnerability in whatsapp voip [voice over internet protocol] stack allowed remote code execution via specially crafted series of srtcp [secure real-time transport protocol] packets sent to a target phone number.”  prof alan woodward from the university of surrey said it was a "pretty old-fashioned" method of attack. "a buffer overflow is where a program runs into memory it should not have access to.  it overflows the memory it should have and hence has access to memory in which malicious code can potentially be run," he explained. "if you are able to pass some code through the app, you can run your own code in that area. "in voip there is an initial process that dials up and establishes the call, and the flaw was in that bit. consequently you did not need to answer the call for the attack to work." the nso group is an israeli company that has been referred to in the past as a "cyber-arms dealer".  while some cyber-security companies report the flaws they find so that they can be fixed, others keep problems to themselves so they can be exploited or sold to law enforcement.  the nso group is part-owned by the london-based private equity firm novalpina capital, which acquired a stake in february. nso's flagship software, pegasus, has the ability to collect intimate data from a target device, including capturing data through the microphone and camera, and gathering location data.  in a statement, the group said: "nso's technology is licensed to authorised government agencies for the sole purpose of fighting crime and terror.  on the frontline of india's whatsapp fake news warwhatsapp sets new rules after mob killings "the company does not operate the system, and after a rigorous licensing and vetting process, intelligence and law enforcement determine how to use the technology to support their public safety missions. we investigate any credible allegations of misuse and if necessary, we take action, including shutting down the system.  "under no circumstances would nso be involved in the operating or identifying of targets of its technology, which is solely operated by intelligence and law enforcement agencies. nso would not or could not use its technology in its own right to target any person or organisation." whatsapp said it was too early to know how many users had been affected by the vulnerability, although it added that suspected attacks were highly-targeted.   according to the new york times, one of the people targeted was a london-based lawyer involved in a lawsuit against the nso group. amnesty international, which said it had been targeted by tools created by the nso group in the past, said this attack was one human rights groups had long feared was possible. "they're able to infect your phone without you actually taking an action," said danna ingleton, deputy programme director for amnesty tech. she said there was mounting evidence that the tools were being used by regimes to keep prominent activists and journalists under surveillance. "there needs to be some accountability for this, it can't just continue to be a wild west, secretive industry." on tuesday, a tel aviv court will hear a petition led by amnesty international that calls for israel's ministry of defence to revoke the nso group's licence to export its products. how many people were targeted? whatsapp says it is too early in its investigation to say how many people were targeted, or how long the flaw was present in the appdoes updating whatsapp remove the  spyware ? while the update fixes the flaw that let this attack take place, whatsapp has not said whether the update removes any  spyware  that has already infected a compromised devicewhat could the  spyware  do? whatsapp has not said whether the attack could extend beyond the confines of whatsapp, reaching further into a device and accessing emails, photos and more "using an app as an attack route is limited on ios as they run apps in very tightly controlled sandboxes," said prof woodward. "we're all assuming that the attack was just a corruption of whatsapp but analysis is still ongoing. "the nightmare scenario would be if you could get something much more capable onto the device without the user having to do anything," he said. the bbc has asked whatsapp for clarification.  _______ follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc do you have more information about this or any other technology story? you can reach dave directly and securely through  encryption  messaging app signal on: +1 (628) 400-7370 mexican president enrique peña nieto has strongly denied his government spied on prominent journalists and activists by hacking their phones. he said there was "nothing more false" than to suggest his government was behind the installation of  spyware . several alleged victims have filed a criminal complaint following reports that the israeli-made  spyware  had been found on their mobile phones. mexican prosecutors have opened an investigation. a report in the new york times said lawyers, journalists and activists investigating corruption and human rights abuses in mexico were targeted with  spyware  that can infiltrate smartphones and monitor calls, texts and other communications. the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. an internet watchdog at the university of toronto said it had found more than 76 fake messages sent to mexican journalists and lawyers which contained links to the nso group's  spyware .  speaking at an event in the state of jalisco, mr peña nieto said those accusing his administration had to produce more evidence. "this government categorically rejects any type of intervention in the private life of any citizen," he said. "none of the people who feel aggrieved can affirm, demonstrate or show evidence that their life has been affected by these supposed interventions and by this alleged espionage." on wednesday, the mexican attorney general's office said prosecutors would investigate the origin of the fake messages as well as the supplier of the  spyware . a link is usually sent in a message to a smartphone. if the person taps on it, the  spyware  is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - is hackedvery little is known about nso group, the secretive israel-based company behind pegasus, but security researchers have called it a cyber arms dealer. the company was thought to be worth $1bn (£780m) in 2015the company has acknowledged that it sells tools to governments but has given very little details about who its customers are. it has said, however, that it has no control over how its tools are used and for what purpose read more here miguel agustín pro juárez centre: one of the most respected human rights groups in mexico, it has looked into the disappearance and suspected massacre of 43 students in 2014 and other high profile cases, including a military raid that left 22 dead in 2014. its executive director and two other senior executives allegedly received infected messagesaristegui noticias: award-winning journalist carmen aristegui, who also hosts a daily programme on cnn en español, has reported on suspected cases of corruption and conflict of interest, including a scandal involving the wife of president enrique peña nieto acquiring a $7m (£5.5m) house from a government contractor. two members of her investigative team and her under-age son allegedly received some 50 messagescarlos loret de mola: a popular journalist at leading tv network televisa, he allegedly received several messages containing the softwaremexican institute for competitiveness (imco): it has led efforts for anti-corruption legislation. two senior members were allegedly targeted. the bbc has uncovered new details about one of the men accused of murdering jamal khashoggi, a prominent saudi journalist who was critical of his country's government. turkish media identified maher abdulaziz mutreb as being part of a 15-member team of suspected saudi agents who flew into and out of istanbul on the day of mr khashoggi's disappearance from the city's saudi consulate on 2 october. he is said to have spent two years working in london, with a source describing him as a colonel in saudi intelligence to us news network cnn. and now bbc arabic can reveal he was trained how to use offensive  spyware  technology on behalf of the saudi state. what we know about saudi journalist's disappearancewho's who in alleged saudi 'hit squad'saudi arabia profile  the source, who spoke to the bbc on condition of anonymity, has visually confirmed his identity from pictures circulated in the media in the days since mr khashoggi's disappearance. according to him, mr mutreb was introduced as "an intelligence security operative". the  spyware  trainers, however, nicknamed him "dark face". "because he looked always grumpy, like he was on the sad side… he was very silent," the source added. saudi arabia denies any knowledge of what happened to mr khashoggi, insisting he left the consulate soon after getting routine paperwork. the european surveillance expert described how mr mutreb spent two weeks on a course with him in 2011, learning how to use the technology his company was providing the saudi government so that it could carry out  targeted-threat s on the phones and computers of its own citizens.  "the training involved things like infecting a computer from potential targets of interest for intelligence and extracting information, so digital evidence, information about this person of interest. "this information might have been basically everything from [their] gps position, conversation, microphone audio around the device itself, camera pictures, files on disk, emails, contacts, everything that was on the device itself." during the training, which was in a military compound in the suburbs of riyadh, the surveillance expert says mr mutreb "used to come and go" and "almost didn't speak at all". "he wasn't one of the guys who was particularly skilled on the technical side," the  spyware  trainer explained.  "the group was split between those doing physical intelligence… so cameras, microphones etc, and another group of people that were doing digital surveillance… i believe that this guy was more on the physical surveillance than the digital surveillance." the tools he was trained in, the source said, were similar to other tools which, according to citizenlab and amnesty international, were recently used against several of mr khashoggi's friends. mr mutreb is believed to have spent two years working at the saudi embassy in london. a document published by the british government in 2007 listed a man with that name as first secretary. however, he has also been named as a saudi intelligence officer by several individuals, and some leaked documents. cnn spoke to a saudi source in london who said he knew mr mutreb, describing him as a colonel in saudi intelligence, while the popular arabic app menom3ay - which enables users to see the names people have linked to phone numbers - lists a man with that name as a colonel in the royal court. on october 12 wikileaks tweeted the khashoggi files, which included emails with the name of mutreb and five other men who were supposed to have attended a course in italy in 2011, run by an italian company called hacking team. the emails were part of a dump of 400gb of data first released by wikileaks in july 2015, which hacking team say was stolen from their internal network.  the emails also included conversations that suggested the intelligence agencies hacking team worked with used it to spy on activists and journalists.  the emails included a list of countries they sold their tools to, including egypt, russia, saudi arabia and sudan. hacking team also sells surveillance software, some of which has offensive capabilities.  these are strange times. germany, perhaps the most privacy conscious nation on earth, is considering a mobile phone app that would trace the contacts of anyone infected with covid-19.  earlier this week the british prime minister shared a picture of an online cabinet meeting, complete with the zoom meeting id and the usernames of ministers. and millions of us are sharing views of our kitchens over this and other video-conferencing apps, without apparently being too concerned about poor privacy controls. meanwhile, the national health service in england has sent out a document that appears to mark a shift in its policy on patient data, giving staff more latitude to share information relating to the coronavirus. in particular, it mentions the use of data to understand trends in the spread and impact of the computer-virus  and "and the management of patients with or at risk of covid-19 including: locating, contacting, screening, flagging and monitoring such patients".  in other words, hospital staff and gps, who until now may have been cautious almost to the point of paranoia about data protection, can chill out a little.  stream or download the latest tech tent podcastlisten live every friday at 14:00 gmt on the bbc world service as someone who has previously been asked by my optician to take pictures on my phone of an eye scan and take them to a hospital doctor because they were not permitted to email them, the new policy seems sensible. so are we becoming more relaxed about privacy because of the pandemic, or are we in danger of allowing governments and corporations to trample over our rights using the excuse of the emergency? the former portuguese europe minister bruno macaes, now a writer and commentator, made it clear where he stands in this startling tweet: the idea that any concern about privacy in the battle against the computer-virus  is not only irrelevant but could prove fatal is at one extreme of this argument.  at the other are some privacy campaigners, who appear to think that any form of monitoring people with the computer-virus  risks the creation of a surveillance state. we can see this battle playing out in the debate over the contact-tracing apps now being considered by a number of european countries, including the uk.  a press conference with a consortium of european scientists aiding their development began with a clear declaration about putting privacy at their core. hans-christian boos, an ai entrepreneur and adviser to chancellor merkel, is one of the initiative's leaders. he said one of the motivating factors was to address the question: "can we really build proximity-tracing while preserving privacy completely?"  it is possible, they concluded, if the system is built round the use of bluetooth signals and anonymous ids. singapore's tracetogether, which already does this, is being cited as a good example. but some countries are taking a less cautious approach.  russia's social monitoring app for citizens who have tested positive for covid-19, will request access to calls, location, camera, storage, network information and other data to check they do not leave their home while contagious. taiwan has been using network data to monitor citizens in quarantine, in one case resulting in a man getting a visit from the police 45 minutes after his phone went flat. and perhaps the most extreme option is a software tool being touted by the israeli  spyware  firm nso group. it envisages governments telling mobile phone operators to hand over all their data on the movements of every subscriber.  when i asked an nhs official whether such an approach would be feasible here, i could almost hear him turn white over the phone.  a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exerciselook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreakvideo: the 20-second hand wash the team working on an app for the uk is acutely conscious that it needs to retain the trust of the public if they are to achieve a target of getting about 60% of the population to install it when released.  telling citizens their government will be logging their every move would be a clear deterrent . but here's the problem. getting apps and other technology solutions out there fast, while cutting a few privacy corners, could mean that lockdowns and the other restrictions on daily life might be be eased earlier.  countries like the uk which are more cautious about privacy are likely to be slower in rolling out contact-tracing technology - and that may mean they are locked down for longer. so, might the public be willing to trade one kind of freedom -  the right to privacy - for another - the right to leave their homes and return to work?  as with so many areas of our lives, the computer-virus  is forcing us to confront difficult questions about our priorities. thousands of disney customers say they have been hacked after signing up to its online streaming service. since disney+ went live, attackers have stolen thousands of customers' accounts and put them up for sale on the dark web, according to a report.  people waited on telephone and online chat lines for hours, and many still say that disney has yet to sort their problems.  but the firm says it does not believe its systems have been compromised. "disney takes the privacy and security of our users' data very seriously and there is no indication of a security breach on disney+," a spokesman said. the statement indicates that members' details have been stolen by other means. that could involve  spyware  on users' devices or the re-use of login details stolen from elsewhere. disney's answer to netflix, disney+ is an online platform where fans can view its movies, short films and tv shows, including the marvel and star wars franchises.  ten million people signed up in its first week.  disney+ has not yet launched in the uk, but is available in the united states, canada and the netherlands. on 12 november, its first day live, people had technical problems and many complained on social media. others said they were locked out of their accounts, and since they contacted disney they have not heard back.  according to an investigation by zdnet, thousands of user accounts went on sale on the dark web.  only hours after the service launched, hackers were selling disney+ accounts for as little as $3 (£2.30). a subscription to the service costs $7 (£5.40) a month.  with the help of a cyber-security researcher, the bbc also found several hacked customer accounts for sale on the dark web.  thousands of these stolen accounts show what kind of subscription the person signed up with and when it expires.  customers say they saw their emails and passwords changed.  many say they used unique userids and passwords to access the streaming platform.  but jason hill, a lead researcher with cyberint, says it looks like many were stolen because people use the same passwords for different sites.  mr hill said that hackers can lift someone's password from a different site which has previously been hacked and then try it on a new site, like disney+. if it works, they steal the account. "whilst many may consider having a unique password for each online service to be difficult to manage, password managers simplify this process and allow you to generate and securely store unique difficult-to-guess passwords," he said.  the streaming service does not have two-factor authentication.  this is when a separate password is sent upon login, to verify an account identity.  others are concerned because they can use their disney+ login to access other products the company provides, like the disney store and its recreation parks. the online streaming service was hit by technical issues on its first day. people took to social media to complain that their pre-ordered streaming service did not work and that they faced long waits for customer service.  the company said in a tweet that it had an "overwhelming response" and apologised. prominent indian scholar and human rights defender anand teltumbde has turned 70 in a mumbai prison amid growing calls for his release, writes the bbc's geeta pandey in delhi. "then they came for me, and there was no one left to speak for me." professor teltumbde often quoted these iconic words from german lutheran pastor martin niemoller, criticising silence when faced with evil, in his books and speeches. on wednesday, when he turns 70 in a mumbai jail where he's been imprisoned for 90 days, his family and friends are trying to ensure that he's not greeted with silence. scores of letters and cards wishing him well on his birthday are expected to be delivered at taloja jail where he's being held. "anand is a respected academic who's been shut away for completely dubious reasons," balmurli natrajan, professor of anthropology at william paterson university in new jersey, who is among the people writing a letter to prof teltumbde, told the bbc. "we want him to know that we are constantly thinking of him, reading his books." counted among india's best-known public intellectuals, prof teltumbde has authored 30 books and is known for his incisive writing on india's harsh caste system. born to a dalit (formerly untouchables in india's rigid caste system) family, he worked in top positions in some of india's biggest oil companies before moving to academia. at present, he's head of the big data programme at the prestigious goa institute of management. a trenchant critic of the government, he's described prime minister narendra modi as "more dangerous than hitler and mussolini" and a "narcissist par excellence". on 14 april, when prof teltumbde turned himself in to federal investigators on court orders, he joined 10 other activists, poets and lawyers who have been arrested in connection with what is known as the bhima koregaon case.  they are being held under the uapa (unlawful activities prevention act) - an anti-terrorism law that makes it almost impossible to get bail. police accuse them of instigating caste violence at a dalit rally in bhima koregaon village in the western state of maharashtra on 1 january 2018.  although those detained weren't present in the village at the time, police blamed the violence on their speeches at a meeting the night before. they are also accused of working in tandem with the naxalites - banned ultra-left maoist rebels - to "overthrow the government and cause chaos in india". indian academic surrenders over violence charges but indian and international campaigners and rights organisations working for their release say they've been jailed for criticising the state. "all the 11 activists have worked relentlessly to protect the rights of some of india's most marginalised people, including dalits and tribals," amnesty international said in one of the several statements it has put out in the past few months calling for their release. human rights watch has called the detentions "wrongful" and "politically motivated" and questioned why the government did not investigate the allegations that hindu nationalist leaders may have had a role in the bhima koregaon violence?  in may, the european parliament subcommittee on human rights wrote to home minister amit shah saying it was alarmed by the "intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders" by the authorities. the letter also urged india to immediately release all prisoners in view of the coronavirus pandemic - most of the detainees are elderly with underlying health conditions and thus at serious risk of catching the infection in overcrowded jails.  prof natrajan says india has always been "a marketplace of ideas", pointing out that nobel laureate amartya sen once called indians "argumentative". but in the past eight years, the space for argument and debate has been shrinking. prof teltumbde, he says, has been setting the contours of key debates on globalisation and politics of caste and religion for the past 30 years. "he's been calling out caste deniers and hindu triumphalism. he's dared to point fingers at the powerful classes - he's telling them, 'here's what you're doing and how it's put a majority of indian people in misery'. and that makes him a dangerous man." prof teltumbde, says his wife rama, was shocked when his name first came up two years back in the list of accused in the bhima koregaon case. "we hadn't even imagined it in our worst dreams that something like this could ever happen to us," she told me on the phone from mumbai. "my husband is not a criminal," she says, her voice breaking with emotion. "he's an academic, a workaholic who spent 14-15 hours daily reading, writing and teaching." in his free time, she says, he would try to help the poor and the marginalised because he wanted to see an india that's better, more just. "to be thrown into jail for that is a very high price to pay." since her husband has been jailed, mrs teltumbde has been allowed a weekly two-minute phone call with him. india jails pregnant student despite covid-19 risk "i always ask him how's his health? and how's the prison food because i know the food there is very bad. he doesn't want to worry us, so he always says he's fine. and then he asks about his mother and our daughters." mrs teltumbde is the granddaughter of bhimrao ambedkar - the author of india's constitution and an icon to millions of dalits - and says she believes that her grandfather wouldn't recognise today's india. "i don't think he envisaged this kind of india where people are arrested for speaking their mind. we live in a democracy and freedom of speech is a right guaranteed under the constitution." but critics say it's a right that is under grave threat in today's india. those criticising pm modi are attacked on social media by nationalist trolls, and activists and students opposing the government are being jailed. most of the dissenters are charged under uapa and being held in prison without bail. earlier this year, police in delhi arrested several students who had protested against a controversial new citizenship law that critics say discriminates against muslims. they were labelled as "anti-nationals working to break up india" by news channels friendly to the government. female activists were slut-shamed on social media. while most continue to languish in overcrowded prisons, safoora zargar, a pregnant female student, was freed after three months in jail following global condemnation.  "the government is playing with the liberties of people by arresting them under flimsy charges," says mihir desai, prof teltumbde's lawyer. "the central charge against prof teltumbde," he says, "is that he was helping the naxalites by getting them recruits and spreading their ideology and that he was taking money from them." but when they raided his house, he says, they did not find any arms or cash. the only evidence the police have put forth so far are four "letters" that they waved at a press conference. mr desai says they are typed and unsigned and there are no addresses or email addresses on them. he says they are not written by prof teltumbde or addressed to him - the one thing they all have in common is the mention of an "anand" which is a common indian name. "these letters appear to be manufactured," he says adding that "even if they are real, how do they prove that this anand is prof teltumbde? also, anyone can write anything to anyone, but is that proof? these can't exist as evidence." the evidence is unlikely to stand scrutiny in court, mr desai says, but it's the process that's the punishment. "if a person is jailed for 10 years while the case goes on, their life is ruined."  as prof teltumbde completes three months in prison, his wife rama says their only demand is for him to be freed on bail and the government to start the trial soon so that "his name can be cleared". a day before he was taken into custody, prof teltumbde wrote an open letter where he detailed the harassment he says he's faced in the past two years - he wrote about how his home was raided, his wikipedia page was vandalised, and how the government inserted israeli  spyware  on his phone.  "as i see my india being ruined, it is with a feeble hope that i write to you at such a grim moment… i do not know when i shall be able to talk to you again. "however, i earnestly hope that you will speak out before your turn comes," he wrote. by jailing him, prof natrajan says, the government is trying to crush the very people who are trying to reason and debate. "but mark my words, anand will not be crushed. you can jail people, torture them, kill them, but you cannot beat ideas." un human rights experts have demanded an immediate investigation into allegations saudi arabia's crown prince hacked amazon boss jeff bezos's phone. they said mohammed bin salman should also be investigated for "continuous, direct and personal efforts to target perceived opponents". a message from a phone number used by the prince has been implicated in a breach of mr bezos's data. the kingdom's us embassy has denied the "absurd" story. but the independent un experts - agnes callamard, special rapporteur on summary executions and extrajudicial killings, and david kaye, special rapporteur on freedom of expression - said the crown prince's "possible involvement" had to be investigated. relations between saudi arabia and mr bezos - who also owns the washington post - worsened after jamal khashoggi, a prominent critic of the saudi government and one of the newspaper's staff, was murdered in the saudi consulate in istanbul in 2018. saudis sentence five over khashoggi murderhow saudi arabia's crown prince rose to power the killing took place months after the alleged cyber-hack took place. mr bezos's phone was hacked after he received a whatsapp message in may 2018 that was sent from the crown prince's personal account, according to the guardian newspaper, which broke the story. an investigation into the data breach reportedly found that the billionaire's phone began secretly sharing huge amounts of data after he received the  encryption  video file. in a statement, ms callamard and mr kaye said: "the information we have received suggests the possible involvement of the crown prince in surveillance of mr bezos, in an effort to influence, if not silence, the washington post's reporting on saudi arabia." it said the allegations reinforced "other reporting pointing to a pattern of targeted surveillance of perceived opponents and those of broader strategic importance to the saudi authorities". was jeff bezos the weak link in cyber-security?saudi arabia accused over bezos hackwhat happened to jamal khashoggi? the experts linked the case heavily to the khashoggi murder, saying the post reporter's phone had been hacked at the same time as mr bezos's. they said there had been "a massive, clandestine online campaign against mr bezos and amazon, apparently targeting him principally as the owner of the washington post". the statement also called for "rigorous control" of the "unconstrained marketing, sale and use of  spyware ". the un experts cited "a 2019 forensic analysis of mr bezos' iphone that assessed with 'medium to high confidence' that his phone was infiltrated on 1 may 2018 via an mp4 video file sent from a whatsapp account utilised personally by mohammed bin salman". the crown prince and mr bezos had reportedly exchanged numbers a month earlier and within hours of the mp4's arrival, there was a "massive and unprecedented exfiltration of data" from mr bezos's phone. the analysis cited by the experts says the crown prince then "sent whatsapp messages to mr bezos... in which he allegedly revealed private and confidential information about mr bezos' personal life". private information was then leaked to the american tabloid, the national enquirer. in february 2019 mr bezos accused it of "extortion and blackmail" after it published text messages between him and his girlfriend, former fox television presenter lauren sánchez. a month earlier he and mackenzie bezos, his wife of 25 years, had announced that they planned to divorce having been separated for a "long period". the twitter account of the kingdom's us embassy issued an outright denial of the allegations against the crown prince. "we call for an investigation on these claims so that we can have all the facts out," the embassy said. mr bezos has made no response to the un experts' statement, but did tweet an image of himself with khashoggi's fiancée, along with the tag #jamal: analysis by jane wakefield, bbc news technology reporter a hack such as this was "horribly easy to do once the vulnerability involved had been discovered," says computer expert prof alan woodward. the seemingly innocent video would have contained  malware  that surreptitiously installed itself on the targeted phone. from there it would have been possible for the hacker to gain access to all the functions of the phone, from the gps locator, to the camera, to the banking facilities and messaging apps. such access is made possible via bugs in the code and, last year, a security flaw in whatsapp was revealed that would have allowed hackers to hide malicious code inside video files.  phone hacking is, says prof woodward, all too common in certain countries that are keen to keep an eye on journalists, dissidents and other activists perceived to be a threat to their regimes. so-called stalkerware is available off the shelf to these governments. but what about the involvement of the saudi crown prince? was it really him who installed the  malware ? it is unlikely that he set the phone up himself. so was his phone also being spied on? or was he simply a vessel being used by the saudi authorities? the plot thickens. jun 2017 - jamal khashoggi flees saudi arabia and goes into self-imposed exile in the ussept 2017 - khashoggi starts writing for the washington post, criticising the polices of mohammed bin salmanapr 2018 - mr bezos attends a dinner with the crown prince and they exchange numbers1 may 2018 - mr bezos receives an  encryption  mp4 video file allegedly sent from the crown prince's personal whatsapp account. mr bezos's data leaks out2 oct 2018 - jamal khashoggi is murdered inside the saudi consulate in istanbulnov 2018-feb 2019 - prince mohammed sends mr bezos whatsapp messages allegedly revealing private and confidential information about mr bezos' personal lifejan 2019 - the national enquirer publishes an exposé of mr bezos' extramarital affair with lauren sanchezfeb 2019 - mr bezos accuses the national enquirer of "extortion and blackmail". its publisher says it acted lawfullyjan 2020 - un experts call for an inquiry into the crown prince's alleged involvement in the hack a prominent lebanese actor who has spent months in detention accused of collaborating with israel has had the case against him dropped. a judge freed ziad itani from detention and ordered the arrest of a security officer who built the case against him.  mr itani was suspected of gathering information on lebanese politicians with a view to passing it on to israel.  lebanon technically remains at war with israel and collaborating is punishable by death.  mr itani was detained in november on charges of "collaborating and communicating with the israeli enemy". state security officials said his arrest followed "several months of monitoring, follow-up and investigations". it was alleged that mr itani had confessed to being "tasked to monitor a group of high-level political figures". however, close associates said his "confession" was extracted under duress, a claim denied by the authorities. data-stealing  spyware  'traced to lebanon'israeli vulture cleared of spying lebanon bans wonder woman over israel star the case has been widely covered in lebanese media and has thrown a spotlight on the country's security apparatus. as he left roumieh prison on tuesday, a tearful mr itani flashed a "v" for victory sign and said he had been subjected to a great injustice. "i am an artist and the son of the stage... how could i be accused of such ugly things?" lebanon's official national news agency reported him saying. prime minister saad hariri later met the actor and said the security services had received "wrong information". the security officer arrested on the judges orders was a former head of an anti-cybercrime unit, lt col suzan hobeiche. she was taken into detention earlier this month on suspicion of having fabricated evidence against the actor. it is not clear exactly what charges she now faces. yana peel, the ceo of the serpentine galleries in london, has resigned from her role after three years in the job. peel said her decision came "in light of a concerted lobbying campaign against my husband's recent investment" referencing "toxic, personal attacks". peel's husband is an owner of investment company novalpina capital management international, which invests in controversial israeli tech firm nso. amnesty international has criticised nso's use of surveillance technology. in a statement, serpentine galleries said peel "will be sorely missed. the arts sector will be poorer without her immeasurable contributions to our cultural lives." peel said in her statement: "the work of the serpentine... cannot be allowed to be undermined by misguided personal attacks on me and my family. these attacks are based upon inaccurate media reports now subject to legal complaints.  "i have decided i am better able to continue my work in supporting the arts, the advancement of human rights and freedom of expression by moving away from my current role." she added: "the world of art is about free expression. but it is not about bullying and intimidation. i welcome debate and discussion about the realities of life in the digital age. there is a place for these debates, but they should be constructive, fair and factual - not based upon toxic personal attacks." mrs peel owns one-third of the novalpina holding company but her representatives stress she has only a single-digit percentage, indirect interest in the relevant fund and no role in operational or investment decisions. novalpina began funding nso group technologies earlier this year. nso has previously been accused of selling  spyware  called pegasus to agencies which use it to monitor human rights activists. but the group insists that its products have been used by law enforcement agencies in the battle against terrorism and wider criminal behaviour. according to its own website, nso group "provides the tools that support official authorities to lawfully address the most dangerous issues in today's world. governments use our products to prevent terrorism, break up criminal operations, find missing persons, and assist search and rescue teams." following an exchange of letters with human rights organisation amnesty, novalpina issued a statement last week announcing "a new framework" to "bring nso group in full alignment with un guiding principles on business and human rights". it continued: "novalpina and nso will do whatever necessary to ensure nso's technology is used only for its intended lawful purpose - the prevention of harm to our fundamental human rights to life, liberty and security from acts of terrorism and serious crime." the university of toronto's citizen lab monitors digital attacks against civil society and has been tracking the nso group for several years. in a letter published on tuesday, citizen lab said it had "sent multiple letters to novalpina capital llp and nso group seeking specific answers regarding a number of concerns, including at least 31 reports of abusive targeting. these questions remain largely unanswered". the serpentine said it was "with a mix of gratitude and regret that the board of trustees of the serpentine galleries has accepted the resignation of ceo yana peel. "since taking on the role in 2016, yana has done an exemplary job furthering the mission, visibility, and financial standing of the serpentine, increasing support and donations, overseeing ground-breaking exhibitions, and expanding the serpentine's programme internationally year over year." peel oversaw programmes from artists such as grayson perry and rose wylie and commissioned touring exhibitions to milan, miami, paris, berlin, chicago, new york and hong kong.  correction 1 april 2020: an earlier version of this article said that yana peel was listed on company records as an indirect owner of novalpina. this has been since amended to explain that at the time of publication she owned one-third of a holding company, novalpina capital group. ms peel's representatives have explained this means she had no control or involvement in the novalpina capital investment fund, which acquired a stake in nso group. our article has also been updated to make that clear. follow us on facebook, on twitter @bbcnewsents, or on instagram at bbcnewsents. if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. if you want to get this briefing by email, sign-up here his comments on president donald trump's administration have caused problems for her government but theresa may is giving sir kim darroch  - the uk's ambassador to the us - her "full support". however, downing street says the emails he sent in 2017 "do not reflect the closeness of, and the esteem in which we hold, the relationship" between the countries. sir kim's messages described the trump administration - then in its early days - as "dysfunctional" and "clumsy and inept". the president has responded to their publication with anger, tweeting on monday that he and his colleagues would "no longer deal" with sir kim. bbc political editor laura kuenssberg describes downing street's stance as a "stiff brush-off". here's her take on the situation. the two men battling it out to be conservative leader and prime minister meet for the first time in a one-to-one tv debate later. itv's julie etchingham will oversee the hour-long event, in which tory members and other members of the public ask questions, from 20:00 bst.  we can expect a lot of talk about brexit from jeremy hunt and boris johnson, in front of an audience of 200 people at mediacityuk in salford, greater manchester. before the debate, why not compare where the candidates stand on the main issues here? and what's on the minds of the 180,000 tory members choosing the winner? get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning the disease amyloidosis causes nerve and organ damage, and it can be fatal. but a form of treatment using a technique called "gene silencing" is now available on the nhs in england. read here about what it is and how it works. by sean coughlan, education and family correspondent "it's important to talk about the cost of going to open days," says rachel, a sixth-former from plymouth who is looking at university choices. "not everyone can afford to go out of their area. train tickets are expensive and there's most likely accommodation as well."  this is peak season for university open days, when tens of thousands of teenagers and their families are criss-crossing the country viewing places where they might study. a return trip by train from north to south can cost £200 or even £300. and even with railcard discounts, when there might be four or five universities to visit, the open-day season can soon become an unaffordable closed door. read the full article the guardian leads on donald trump's "scathing" attack on theresa may, saying the us president's reaction to comments by the uk's washington ambassador sir kim darroch create a "dilemma" for the next pm about how to deal with relations between the two countries. the i concentrates on mr trump's criticism of mrs may's handling of brexit as a "mess". "our man in limbo" is metro's take on sir kim's position. elsewhere, the daily mail says families have spent £15bn in the last two years caring for relatives with dementia. and the daily mirror reports that one-in-five meat products are contaminated with dna from other animals.  hong kong extradition bill dead, says leader carrie lam cancer prevention boys aged 12 to 13 to get hpv vaccine himalayan climbers video footage of team's last moments released filippo magnini italian olympic swimming star saves drowning newly-wed off coast of sardinia the kids fighting 'holiday poverty' what is lobbying? 'the kids emptied our bank account playing fifa' sign up for a morning briefing direct to your phone 10:00 gchq opens an exhibition at the science museum in london, showing items from its 100-year history, including cold war russian  spyware  and artefacts from the world wars. 12:00 the new children's laureate is announced, to replace lauren child. 1982 a man breaks into buckingham palace and spends 10 minutes talking to the queen in her bedroom. here are the world's most innovative cities (national geographic) what do people in solitary confinement want to see? (new yorker) zoe's school wasn't up to scratch. so she moved out of town to realise her dreams (sydney morning herald) do you see a beach or a broken car door? (daily mail) police and army bosses have been criticised for failings leading up to the death of a stalking victim at the hands of her soldier ex-boyfriend.   trimaan dhillon cut 24-year-old alice ruggles' throat after breaking into her gateshead flat in october 2016. a review has found northumbria police and the army failed to properly address signs of l/cpl dhillon's jealous and obsessive behaviour. dhillon, 26, was jailed for a minimum of 22 years after a trial last year.  a domestic homicide review, carried out by gateshead community safety board, concluded miss ruggles was subjected to "significant stalking" and that army officials failed to record a previous domestic assault charge against dhillon in kent. the review heard miss ruggles, who was originally from tur langton, near market harborough in leicestershire and worked for sky, had contacted northumbria police about dhillon's stalking in the days before her death. in one a call handler asked miss ruggles if she wanted him to be arrested, but she declined. the review found police should have made that decision and it should not have been left to the victim. the review noted that a police officer did contact dhillon's barracks in edinburgh and spoke to a superior, but not military police or police scotland, and dhillon was then told by the regiment to stop contacting her or face arrest. but he ignored the warning and eventually drove 120 miles to tyneside to murder miss ruggles. the report concluded: "the perpetrator's willingness to travel provided an indication of the level of his obsessive behaviour that was overlooked. "in addition, there was a lack of clarity about the roles and responsibilities of the home office, police and armed forces, which led to some confusion about how best to deal with the perpetrator." the review made 20 recommendations, including making it an offence to threaten to release intimate photos of an ex-partner, as dhillon did when miss ruggles called off their relationship. it also urged the home office to review the effectiveness of the police 101 non-emergency number, after it emerged miss ruggles abandoned a call to northumbria police after being kept on hold for almost seven minutes. the review described the incident as a "missed opportunity to support alice". last year the the independent office for police conduct (iopc) said two northumbria officers had cases of misconduct to answer while another had performed unsatisfactorily. it also found the force treated the matter as harassment rather than stalking. the force has since apologised to miss ruggles' parents, sue hill and clive ruggles. the review also called on the home office to review the legality of  spyware  after concerns about the ease in which dhillon was able to hack miss ruggles' social media accounts. responding to the report, ms hill and mr ruggles said: "alice died in tragic circumstances and it is important that failings are acknowledged, lessons learned, and improvements made.   "we hope that the army will now realise that they have an important part to play when one of their soldiers is accused of criminal behaviour against a civilian and, like other agencies, will proceed to learn lessons from alice's case." brigadier christopher coles, head of army personnel services group, said: "we are committed to tacking domestic abuse and last year launched a strategy to help prevent domestic abuse in all its forms.  "this includes prevention of abuse in the home and providing support to the families of service personnel who may be affected." northumbria police's assistant chief constable rachel bacon said: "with the help of alice's family we are now leading the way in training officers in the best way to deal with these types of offences. "their continued determination to change the law to better protect victims of stalking is commendable." a review of the best commentary on and around the world... "the fbi will not have to bug your living room; you will do it yourself."  so says michael price of salon.com, the nervous new owner of a "smart" tv - a web-connected telly that recognises his face, listens to his voice, and could send that information (and more, including emails he receives) to a third party. "got that? don't say personal or sensitive stuff in front of the tv," writes price. "i do not doubt that this data is important to providing customised content and convenience, but it is also incredibly personal, constitutionally protected information that should not be for sale to advertisers and should require a warrant for law enforcement to access." the daily mail reports british it consultant jason huntley found his lg smart tv had sent his children's names, un encryption , over the internet "because he had watched a family video on his set". price explains current laws offer very little privacy protection to the "third party records", including data stored in the cloud (although one federal court of appeals has found this rule unconstitutional with respect to email). speaking about web-based "smart" devices, retired general david petraeus, former head of the cia, said in 2012 that "items of interest will be located, identified, monitor, and remotely controlled through technologies such as radio-frequency identification, sensor networks, tiny embedded servers and energy harvester." that means, price argues, as the "internet of things" matures, household appliances - even your socks - may be wired to interact online.  of course, it is possible to disable data collection, but that immobilises many of the high-tech functions. "this leaves consumers with an unacceptable choice between keeping up with technology and retaining their personal privacy… we should not have to channel surf worried that the tv is recording our behaviour for the benefit of advertisers and police. companies need to become more mindful of consumer privacy when deciding whether to collect personal data." a chinese partner in cyber-security - russia and china see eye-to-eye on their increased role in cyber-security, according to elena chernenko, vladislav novyii and ivan safronov in russia's kommersant. both countries support the "internationalisation" of internet management, which includes the sovereign right of a government to control internet sites in "its own national segment" (the us does not recognize the existence of national segments). russian president vladimir putin will visit beijing next month, where he is expected to sign a bilateral agreement on cyber-security. this follows several collaborative deals between china and russia in information technology and communications. in may, the russian state telecom company signed a $60m (£37.5m) contract with chinese company huawei to build an underwater communication line in the russian far east.  meanwhile, they say, any us-china partnership is mired in disagreement over us accusations of chinese industrial and government cyber-espionage an out-of-date economic playbook - prime minister shinzo abe has pledged a number of "third-arrow" reforms to bring about japan's resurgence, but bloomberg's william pesek says these would have been appropriate 10 to 15 years ago - more modern measures are necessary. today japan should provide more support for a start-up boom, the end of amakudari - "the equivalent of the revolving door that shifts wall street bankers into top washington jobs and back" - and more flexible immigration policies. pesek also says a forward-thinking energy policy, reducing trade barriers and greater gender equality in public-sector leadership roles are necessary if japan is finally going to turn things around. little progress three years after muammar gaddafi - the past several months have been a turbulent period of violence, resulting in a divisive political situation, according to gianluca eramo of the libya herald. the author says in addition to local fighting, neighbouring countries and regional powers are manoeuvring and steering among libyan militias to gain access, power and control.  "the international community must urgently develop a concrete political strategy to support the legitimate aspirations of the libyan people for security, dignity and democracy," said eramo.  political discourse that focuses on shared, open and fair transitional justice mechanisms can shift attention from the current tendency to look outside the country for political backing and support, says eramo. "it can therefore also help reduce the risk of external actors fuelling cycles of violence." little help on ebola from within - almost 40 years after ebola was first identified, africa does not have the capacity to play a pivotal role in fighting the computer-virus , argues brian sedze of the standard. the continent, he says, has not invested in research, believing some overseas country would do the research instead.  "the continent seems to be completely outraged at the international community for what they believe is a lethargic reaction to efforts at containing the ebola epidemic," sedze adds. "there are also murmurs of disapproval that the us provided 3,900 soldiers to help in the fight of ebola instead of medical personnel." the question, he asks, is how many doctors and nurses did africa itself provide for this effort. the lack of personnel might be explained by the ever present dependency syndrome. "while the world was doing all this for us, africa was busy spending millions sponsoring tribal conflicts, billions of dollars on corruption, funding lavish lifestyles of its corrupt leaders, siphoning billions of dollars to tax havens and sponsoring warped priorities that only encourage political expedience at the cost of lives of its citizens," he concludes israeli columnists react to an unnamed senior us official insulting prime minister benyamin netanyahu in an atlantic magazine article earlier this week. "this is just the latest in a series of vindictive acts by the obama administration because israel has dared to reject its diktats... netanyahu should be commended for withstanding the unreasonable pressure from obama and kerry, avoiding outright confrontations and in so doing, retaining the support of american public opinion and congress." - isi leibler in yisrael hayom. "the latest attack signals the policy the united states will adopt toward netanyahu's government following the upcoming congressional elections and in the two years left for obama at the white house. the tight security and intelligence cooperation will continue, but the diplomatic protection at the un and international forums will not be immediate and granted." - barak ravid in ha'aretz.‎ have you found an interesting opinion piece about global issues that we missed? share it with us via email at echochambers (at) bbc.co.uk. amnesty international has released a program that can spot spying software used by governments to monitor activists and political opponents. the detekt software was needed as standard anti-virus programs often missed spying software, it said. amnesty said many governments used sophisticated spying tools that could grab images from webcams or listen via microphones to monitor people. it wants to see more regulation of the spying software used by governments. "these spying tools are marketed on their ability to get round your bog-standard anti-virus," said tanya o'carroll, an adviser on technology and human rights at amnesty international. the makers of spying software did extensive testing to ensure that the way they infected and lurked on a computer did not trigger security alerts, she added.  detekt has been developed over the past two years to spot the few telltale signs spying programs do leave. the intense scan it carries out on a hard drive means a computer cannot be used while detekt is running. four separate rights groups - amnesty international, the electronic frontier foundation, privacy international and digitale gesellschaft - have worked together to create the  spyware  spotter, which is available free of charge.  the group is now looking for help to keep detekt up to date and expand the range of spying programs it can catch. the first version of detekt has been written to run on windows computers because the people most often being monitored use that software, said ms o'carroll.  many repressive governments had been using spying software for some time and the programs were becoming increasingly popular with democratically elected governments too, said ms carroll. spying software has been found on the computers of activists in bahrain, syria, ethiopia, vietnam, germany, tibet, north korea and many other nations. "it's easier to name the countries that are not using these spying tools than those that are," she said.  the trade in  spyware  used by governments is now a market worth about £3bn ($5bn) a year, said ms o'carroll, adding it was time for this trade to be better regulated.  prof alan woodward from the university of surrey, who advises governments on security issues, wondered how easy it would be for amnesty and its partners to maintain detekt. "it's not really their core business," he said. "are they going to keep updating the software because the  spyware  variants change daily?" he also questioned how useful it would be against regimes that used specially written software rather than commercial versions that were well known and documented. "if a technique is known about widely, those regimes will assume it's going to be ineffective and use another approach," he said.  claudio guarnieri, the german security researcher who created detekt, said there was a growing roster of firms producing spying software.  "people think the uses of  spyware  by governments are isolated cases. they are not," mr guarnieri told the bbc. "their discovery is isolated. " spyware  is becoming the final solution for surveillance operations to overcome  encryption .  "the real problem is nobody really asked the public whether that's acceptable and some countries are legitimising their use without considering the consequences and inherent issues."  the software is spread in booby-trapped attachments on email messages, by seeding  malware  on compromised sites or with fake messaging software, said mr guarnieri. karl zetterlund, a senior researcher at security firm sentor, said the needs of law enforcement were understandably different to those of the average cyberthief. "criminals are mainly interested in information that can somehow generate money. law enforcement  spyware  may only need to collect a few pieces of identifying information, such as a net address, from the computer," he said.  "generally, policeware may be better at hiding, as normal  malware  often aims for strength in numbers and spreading is more important than passing under the radar." there had also been cases in the past, he said, when computer security companies collaborated with governments to ignore  spyware  they found planted on machines.  if you want to get this briefing by email, sign-up here research by bbc news suggests that a quarter of patients with sepsis have experienced delays in getting treatment. hospitals are supposed to put a person on an antibiotic drip within an hour if sepsis is suspected. while the charity uk sepsis trust says the figures are concerning, nhs england insists hospitals are getting better at spotting the condition. but the widow of one man who died after developing sepsis told the bbc she was "angry" at the delay in treating him with antibiotics. hayley scott said her husband, simon, waited six days to get treated, despite his hospital notes suggesting he should have been on them from day two. the hospital has said there were "areas of learning" resulting from his case. sepsis is caused by the immune system over-reacting to an infection, and can lead to septic shock, organ failure and even death. find out more about sepsis here, and why one man wants mandatory training for nhs staff. it may have been only last sunday that us president donald trump met north korean leader kim jong-un in the demilitarised zone which divides the two koreas, but relations between them appear to have soured already. pyongyang's delegation to the united nations has accused washington of being "obsessed with sanctions" and "hell-bent on hostile acts". the rhetorical skirmish came about because the us and other western nations have written a joint letter calling for further sanctions on north korea. the us has yet to respond to the north korea statement. meanwhile, an australian who went missing in north korea last week has been released and is safe. it is understood alex sigley is now in china and will travel on to japan. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning manchester is set to ring the changes on thursday as thousands of people are expected to take part in a mass bell-ringing event created by yoko ono. john lennon's widow told the bbc she was hopeful for "an incredible vibration" that "might just change the world". while ono, now 86, is unable to come to manchester for the event, she will appear on big screens to give the bell-ringers their instructions. the whole thing will be live-streamed from 18:00 bst and forms the opening of the manchester international festival. by jill martin wrenn, business reporter as consumers become ever more concerned about environmental and ethical issues, pioneers in the global denim industry are cleaning up its act. blackhorse lane ateliers, which describes itself as a "craft jeans maker", has an open-door policy. "anybody can walk in here, even without an appointment," says han ates, the founder of the london-based small business. "through that we create transparency." by opening up its doors, blackhorse lane ateliers is able to show potential customers that its factory is clean, the 20 employees are happy, and that the jeans are worth keeping - rather than throwing away at the end of each season. read the full article promises made by conservative party leadership contenders boris johnson and jeremy hunt dominate thursday's front pages. writing in the sun, mr johnson says he'll ensure the uk has a "good brexit", as well as recruiting 20,000 more police officers and stopping labour leader jeremy corbyn from becoming prime minister. mr hunt similarly claims he can take on mr corbyn, according to the daily telegraph, and also plans to hold a vote on ending the fox hunting ban. elsewhere, the i leads with a story which says up to 70 labour mps face deselection in a party "purge". there's more from thursday's papers in our full review. railway killed worker 'an absolutely fantastic guy' tories leadership rivals make new pledges as voting nears alcohol abuse 'affects one in five uk inpatients' investments national trust shuns fossil fuel stocks the fabric that changed the way we live tweet of the day: trudie goodwin on the hoopoe 100 years of the council estate sign up for a morning briefing direct to your phone 12:00 the annual assessment of policing in england and wales for 2018 is published. 12:30 the england rugby team unveils its kit for the 2019 world cup. 1995 then-prime minister john major wins his battle to remain leader of the conservative party. chinese border authorities installing  spyware  on tourists' phones (sky news) the unlikely cannabis revolution powering canada’s local economy (new statesman) the sandman, catch-22, cloud atlas... is there such thing as an 'unfilmable' book? (the guardian) scientists are searching for a mirror universe. it could be sitting right in front of you. (nbc news) several prominent journalists and activists in mexico have filed a complaint accusing the government of spying on them by hacking their phones.  the accusation follows a report in the new york times that says they were targeted with  spyware  meant to be used against criminals and terrorists. the newspaper says messages examined by forensic analysts show the software was used against government critics. a mexican government spokesman "categorically" denied the allegations. the report says that the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. the software can infiltrate smartphones and monitor calls, texts and other communications, the new york times said. it can also activate a phone's microphone or camera, effectively turning the device into a personal bug. but instead of being used to track suspected criminals, the targets allegedly included investigative journalists, anti-corruption activists and even lawyers. a link is usually sent in a message to a smartphone. if the person taps on it, the  spyware  is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - is hackedvery little is known about nso group, the secretive israel-based company behind pegasus, but security researchers have called it a cyber arms dealer. the company was thought to be worth $1bn (£780m) in 2015the company has acknowledged that it sells tools to governments but has given very little details about who its customers are. it has said, however, that it has no control over how its tools are used and for what purpose read more here nine people have now filed a criminal complaint. at a news conference in mexico city, journalist carmen aristegui accused the state of criminal activity.  "the agents of the mexican state, far from doing what they should be doing legally, have used our resources, our taxes, our money to commit serious crimes," she said. a spokesman for president enrique peña nieto rejected the allegations, saying that the government carries out intelligence work against the organised crime and threats to the national security in accordance with the country's laws, but that it does not include journalists or activists. "the government categorically denies that any of its members carries out surveillance or interference in communications of defenders of human rights, journalists, anti-corruption activists or any other person without prior judicial authorization," a spokesman told the bbc. miguel agustín pro juárez centre: one of the most respected human rights groups in mexico, it has looked into the disappearance and suspected massacre of 43 students in 2014 and other high profile cases, including a military raid that left 22 dead in 2014. its executive director and two other senior executives allegedly received infected messagesaristegui noticias: award-winning journalist carmen aristegui, who also hosts a daily programme on cnn en español, has reported on suspected cases of corruption and conflict of interest, including a scandal involving the wife of president enrique peña nieto acquiring a $7m (£5.5m) house from a government contractor. two members of her investigative team and her under-age son allegedly received some 50 messagescarlos loret de mola: a popular journalist at leading tv network televisa, he allegedly received several messages containing the softwaremexican institute for competitiveness (imco): it has led efforts for anti-corruption legislation. two senior members were allegedly targeted. whatsapp has confirmed that a security flaw in the app let attackers install spy software on their targets' smartphones. that has left many of its 1.5 billion users wondering how safe the "simple and secure" messaging app really is. on wednesday, chip-maker intel confirmed that new problems discovered with some of its processors could reveal secret information to attacks. how trustworthy are apps and devices? no. messages on whatsapp are end-to-end  encryption , meaning they are scrambled when they leave the sender's device. the messages can be decrypted by the recipient's device only. that means law enforcement, service providers and cyber-criminals cannot read any messages they intercept as they travel across the internet. however, there are some caveats.  messages can be read before they are  encryption  or after they are decrypted. that means any  spyware  dropped on the phone by an attacker could read the messages. on tuesday, news site bloomberg published an opinion article calling whatsapp's  encryption  "pointless", given the security breach. however, that viewpoint has been widely ridiculed by cyber-security experts. "i don't think it's helpful to say end-to-end  encryption  is pointless just because a vulnerability is occasionally found," said dr jessica barker from the cyber-security company cygenta. " encryption  is a good thing that does offer us protection in most cases." cyber-security is often a game of cat and mouse. end-to-end  encryption  makes it much harder for attackers to read messages, even if they do eventually find a way to access some of them. whatsapp gives the option to back up chats to google drive or icloud but those back-up copies are not protected by the end-to-end  encryption . an attacker could access old chats if they broke into a cloud storage account. how to stay safe on whatsappwhatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attack of course, even if users decide not to back up chats, the people they message may still upload a copy to their cloud storage. ultimately, any app could contain a security vulnerability that leaves a phone open to attackers. whatsapp is owned by facebook, which typically issues software fixes quickly. of course, even large companies can make mistakes and facebook has had its share of data and privacy breaches over the years. there is no guarantee a rival chat app would not experience a similar security lapse.  at least, following the disclosure of this flaw, whatsapp is slightly more secure than it was a week ago. some rival chat apps are open-source projects, which means anybody can look at the code powering the app and suggest improvements. "open-source software has its value in that it be can tested more widely but it doesn't necessarily mean it's more secure," said dr barker. "vulnerabilities can still be found with any tech, so it's not the answer to our prayers." and if someone did decide to switch to a rival chat app, they would still have to convince their contacts to do the same. a chat app without friends is not much use. in theory, any device or service could be hacked. in fact, security researchers often joyfully pile in on companies that claim their products are "unhackable". they quickly discover vulnerabilities and the embarrassed companies retract their claims. if people are worried data may be stolen from their computer, one option is to "air gap" the device: disconnect it from the internet entirely. that stops remote hackers accessing the machine - but even an air gap would not stop an attacker with physical access to the device. dr barker stressed the importance of installing software updates for apps and operating systems. "whatsapp pushed out an update and consumers might not have realised that security fixes are often included in updates," she told bbc news. whatsapp did not help the cause, however, by describing the latest update as adding "full-size stickers", and not mentioning the security breach. "people need to be made aware that updates are really important. the quicker we can update our apps, the more secure we are," said dr barker. as always, there are simple security steps to remember: install app and operating system security updates use a different password for every app or servicewhere possible, enable two-step authentication to stop attackers logging in to accountsbe careful about what apps you downloaddo not click links in emails or messages you are not expecting the police service of northern ireland have said that 100 webcam blackmails have been reported to them this year. they say that people of all ages have been targeted and that "cyber-stalking is becoming a prevalent issue in northern ireland". police have warned people to review their privacy and security settings and ensure updated anti- spyware  is installed in devices. they said education on "the risks of cyber-stalking" was crucial. last year, police said they were investigating claims that a number of people in northern ireland were being targeted by international crime gangs in the same way as county tyrone schoolboy ronan hughes. the 17-year-old from coalisland, was the victim of what police call webcam blackmail and took his own life in june 2015. ronan was tricked into sharing intimate images of himself online, and some of them were then sent to his friends when he failed to pay a ransom. his family said he was being blackmailed by a gang based in nigeria. firms could face fines of up to £17m or 4% of global turnover if they fail to protect themselves from cyber-attacks, the government has warned. the crackdown is aimed at making sure essential services such as water, energy, transport and health firms are safeguarded against hacking attempts. firms will also be required to show they have a strategy to cover power failures and environmental disasters. digital minister matt hancock said any fines would be a last resort. they would not apply to firms which had put safeguards in place but still suffered an attack, the department for digital, culture, media and sport (dcms) said. mr hancock, who is launching a consultation on the plans, said: "we want the uk to be the safest place in the world to live and be online, with our essential services and infrastructure prepared for the increasing risk of cyber-attack." the dcms said firms that take cyber-security seriously should already have measures in place to prevent attacks or systems failures. it said the consultation was aimed at determining how to implement the network and information systems (nis) directive which becomes law across the eu next may. it is separate from the general data protection regulations (gdpr), which are aimed at protecting data, rather than services. the gdpr will replace the uk's data protection act 1998 from 25 may next year and the government has confirmed that the uk's decision to leave the eu will not change this. earlier this year, nhs services across england and scotland were hit by a large-scale cyber-attack that disrupted hospital and gp appointments. and the threat to firms from cyber-attacks appears to have grown. nearly half (46%) of british businesses discovered at least one cyber-security breach or attack in the past year, a government survey earlier this year found. that proportion rose to two-thirds among medium and large companies. most often, these breaches involved fraudulent emails being sent to staff or security issues relating to computer-virus es,  spyware  or  malware . organised gangs from overseas are blamed for an increase in the number of people blackmailed over intimate online material. police in dorset have investigated 18 cases in two months, mainly men being blackmailed over photos or videos. criminals from a number of countries are obtaining the material after posing as people looking for romance online. officers have identified perpetrators in the us, ghana, ivory coast and the philippines. in some cases webcams have been activated by  spyware  to record victims without their knowledge, police said. det supt mark callaghan said: "the problem we have with locating the perpetrators of 'sextortion' offences is the suspects will often hack in to other people's accounts and use a variety of methods to disguise their location.  "most of the offenders are believed to be abroad in a variety of countries. "it is important that the public recognise the potential risks of their online behaviour." think your kid's being bullied? or sending sexts? or dealing drugs? there's an app for that.  in the united states, nearly 80% of teenagers own mobile phones. about half of those are smartphones - with access to the internet, games, cameras and social media.  that worries many parents. and those fears are fuelling a growing number of so-called parent apps - to track what kids are doing online.  teensafe can work as a personal cia spy for parents.  the company urges parents to tell their children they are being monitored, but the app can work covertly and show what kids are posting on social media as well as deleted texts and messages sent via popular apps such as kik, whatsapp and snapchat.  "it's absolutely legal for a parent to do this discreetly," says teensafe's chief executive rawdon messenger.  "the real question is, 'is it justified?' and those are moral decisions a parent has to make. what we believe is that when it comes to protecting your child from these things - privacy is trumped by protection." mr messenger says he believes about half the families who use teensafe use it to spy on their kids.  teensafe operates in the united states, canada, australia and new zealand, and is hoping to expand to the uk soon. since it started in 2011, it says it has had 800,000 people sign up for the service.  aside from tracking social media use and texting, other parent apps can actually monitor how fast someone is driving or moving in a vehicle as a passenger.  mamabear offers that service, and co-founder robyn spoto says the app is used to link entire families and send alerts when someone is driving above the speed limit or has ventured outside a pre-determined boundary. it cannot be used covertly. "technology is your right-hand man to give you the information that you need so that you can have the right conversation," says ms spoto.  she adds that many families find it reassuring to get push notifications about their children's whereabouts.  ms spoto uses mamabear for her parents and 10-year-old son, who does not have a phone but uses an ipod touch.  but don't her own parents feel annoyed that their adult daughter gets push notifications every time they speed to work or come home at 01:00 from a party? laughing, ms spoto says they're used to it.  "it's not like i'm creeping on them," she says, adding that she likes the assurance of knowing they got home safely. teenagers are typically better at using technology than their parents, and apps such as these can create a cat-and-mouse game of kids trying to avoid prying eyes.  but the parent apps are prepared - if your child does not call you back or turns the phone off, you can disable the phone so it only works to call mum or dad.  some call them the "stalker apps", worrying that data gathered by smartphone  spyware  could be misused by suspicious spouses or mistrustful bosses.  and it seems the us authorities share these concerns. last year the fbi arrested a man for distributing an app called stealthgenie, which intercepted emails and texts as well as recorded phone calls.  prosecutors highlighted that the software was marketed as being "undetectable" and suggested it was designed for "stalkers and domestic abusers". in the first ever criminal conviction of its kind, hammad akbar was subsequently fined $500,000 (£332,840) after pleading guilty to advertising and selling the app. smartphone monitoring services are, however, legal to use in the us, so long as the software is installed on a device used by either the customer's: child - who must be under 18 years oldemployee - so long as the worker has given their consent and been told they are being monitored several available products highlight their restrictions in their small print, even if, occasionally, they also market their "cheating spouse"-catching potential. "as far as the uk is concerned, the use of 'stalker apps' could very easily land you on the wrong side of the uk data protection act 1998 and other applicable uk laws ," commented vin bange from the law firm taylor wessing. "domestic use is treated very differently to surveillance in the workplace - the latter is a complex area which requires close observation of the law and employee 'consent' cannot be seen as a silver bullet." when asked if they think their parents are spying on them, a random group of teens at a busy shopping centre in los angeles thought it was highly unlikely.  parents are too busy, they say. they trust them.  but when i visited a primary school in los angeles, where cyber-security expert lou rabon was addressing parents at his son's school, many of the parents were open to tracking their kids' every move. "i would chip them like a dog if i could," one mother said.  many of the parents there thought they were tech-savvy and were shocked to see how easy it was for mr rabon to pinpoint their geographic location by the photos they posted on facebook - he then taught them how to turn off geo-tagging on their camera phones.  they groaned in horror as he showed online messages a predator had posted in a chat room posing as a depressed and lonely 14-year-old girl looking for friends.  mr rabon, who is in the process of creating a parent app of his own, advises parents to use obscure passwords.  one mother told the story of her nine-year-old son who was taught by an older child on the school bus how to get around parental controls on his phone by using a commonly used password in the family.  "within minutes he had googled the word 'sex' and my nine-year-old was on a porn site," she told parents at the meeting.  "he saw things we hoped he wouldn't see ever or for at least another 10 years."  it doesn't bode well for parents trying to instil trust and independence in their children.  mr rabon says it's naive for parents to blindly trust their kids - and he agrees that in many ways it's a lousy time to be a teenager.  when asked if the next trend would be for teenagers to turn off their phones, he says it wouldn't work - the app he's creating would alert a group of parents if the children in a circle of friends all turned off their phones and would pinpoint their geographic location - ie the party's busted.  "if you want to completely disconnect and raise your children in that world you've got to go to the jungles of the amazon or something; in the world we live in today this pervasive ubiquitous technology is only going to expand," he says, adding that he doesn't want his sons raised in a bubble, but he can't ignore reality.  "this technology could save lives so i think that it's absolutely a great thing to be able to track our kids."  the chinese-language website of the tibetan government-in-exile, whose spiritual head is the dalai lama, has been hacked and infected with computer-virus es. experts at computer security company kaspersky lab warned that the central tibetan administration (cta) site had been compromised. it is believed the  malware  could be used to spy on visitors. technical evidence suggests the hackers carried out previous cyber-attacks on human rights groups in asia. tibet.net is the official website of the cta, which is based in dharamshala, northern india. the organisation's spiritual leader is the 14th dalai lama, who fled tibet in 1959 after a failed anti-chinese uprising, and set up a government-in-exile. china considers the dalai lama a separatist threat. kaspersky says the cta website has been under constant attack from the same group of hackers since 2011, but previous breaches have been quietly identified and repaired before attracting significant attention. other tibetan organisations, such as the international campaign for tibet, have also been targeted. kaspersky lab researcher kurt baumgartner says the hackers used a method known as a "watering-hole attack". a security bug in oracle's java software might have been exploited, giving hackers a "back door" into browsers' computers.  "this is the initial foothold," mr baumgartner said. "from there they can download arbitrary files and execute them on the system."  kaspersky's education manager ram herkanaidu said the discovery of the attack came after an "email account of a prominent tibetan activist was hacked". mr herkanaidu added: "the likely actors behind the sustained campaign against tibetan sites are chinese speaking, as in many cases we have seen log files written in chinese." nearly half (46%) of british businesses discovered at least one cybersecurity breach or attack in the past year, a government survey has indicated. that proportion rose to two-thirds among medium and large companies. most often, these breaches involved fraudulent emails being sent to staff or security issues relating to computer-virus es,  spyware  or  malware . the survey was completed by 1,500 uk businesses and included 30 in-depth interviews. the government said a "sizeable proportion" of the businesses still did not have "basic protections" in place. while many had enacted rudimentary technical controls, only one-third had a formal policy covering cybersecurity risks. less than a third (29%) had assigned a specific board member to be responsible for cybersecurity. businesses' susceptibility to cyber-attacks was a known issue, noted prof andrew martin at the university of oxford. "a lot of businesses have responded to the problem with a box-ticking exercise or by paying an expensive consultant to make them feel better - it's far from clear that what people are doing is protecting them very well," he told the bbc. he added it remained difficult for most people to distinguish malicious emails or websites from safe ones. "it's all very well to say don't open emails from an unknown source - but most of us couldn't do business if [we] didn't do that," he added. the government's survey indicates, however, that fewer businesses in 2017 consider cybersecurity to be of "very low priority". it said 74% now agreed it was a high priority issue for senior management. 'alarming' rise in  ransomware  trackedcould hackers turn the lights out?how hackers handle stolen login data the report also highlighted some unusual cybersecurity cases. it said a large materials supplier for the construction industry faced "significant and ongoing" attacks, despite not having any e-commerce activities of its own. "this included over 3,000  phishing  emails a month and various  ransomware  attacks," the report noted.  phishing  is a form of cyber-attack in which emails with malicious links or attachments are disguised as genuine. the most damaging case of  ransomware  at the firm in question caused its it team to lose "around two weeks" of productivity. since then, the business has reviewed its cybersecurity policies. company directors are the victims of one in five cases of identity fraud, according to fraud prevention organisation cifas. they account for 19% of victims of these type of fraud cases, despite making up less than 9% of the uk population. directors have been targeted directly by scams owing to the potential for con-artists to steal large sums. fraud victims are most likely to be aged between 31 and 50, cifas said. however, the biggest rise in 2016 from the previous year was among those aged 21 and under. the report, by cifas and lexisnexis risk solutions, also warned that fraudsters were attempting to obtain credit files as a pre-cursor to committing identity fraud.  some 47% of recorded identity frauds involving fraudulently obtained credit files from company directors took place in london and the south east of england. in comparison, wales and the north east of england each accounted for 2% of these fraud cases.     the vast majority of identity fraud takes place when a fraudster pretends to be an individual, so as to buy a product or take out a loan in their name.  fraudsters get hold of the necessary personal material by stealing mail, computer hacking, obtaining data on the dark web, and exploiting personal information on social media, according to cifas. they can also gather it though social engineering, where people give up personal information to someone pretending to be from their bank, the police or a retailer.  cifas advises people to shred important paper documents - and use passwords, privacy settings and anti-virus software on their computers. limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti- spyware  programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas turkish media have named 15 saudi nationals who turkish officials suspect were involved in the disappearance of jamal khashoggi, a prominent saudi journalist critical of the government who was last seen entering the saudi consulate in the city of istanbul on 2 october. most of the men flew into istanbul on two private jets hours before mr khashoggi arrived at the consulate to collect some routine paperwork, and flew back to riyadh later in the day on the same jets.  turkish officials believe the men are saudi officials and intelligence officers, an allegation that appears to be supported by open source information that is freely available. saudi authorities deny any involvement in mr khashoggi's disappearance. they insist he left the consulate soon after getting the paperwork. dr tubaigy is a forensic pathologist who completed a master's degree at the university of glasgow in scotland, and in 2015 he spent three months at the victorian institute of forensic medicine in australia.  the doctor identifies himself on his twitter account as a professor of forensic medicine and head of the saudi scientific council of forensics. the account also links to the saudi interior ministry.  in 2014 the london-based arabic newspaper asharq al-awsat said dr tubaigy was a lieutenant colonel working for the forensic science department of the interior ministry's general directorate of public security.   in an interview, accompanied by a photograph of him wearing uniform, the doctor discussed a mobile laboratory that he had designed to allow pathologists to perform post-mortems in only seven minutes in order to quickly determine the cause of death of muslims performing the hajj pilgrimage.  turkish officials have also said that dr tubaigy was carrying a bone saw when he flew into istanbul ataturk airport from riyadh at 03:13 on 2 october on a private jet with the tail number hzsk2. the jet is owned by sky prime aviation services, a company that was reportedly seized by the saudi government in an anti-corruption drive last year. dr tubaigy stayed at a mövenpick hotel istanbul, 0.5km (0.3 miles) west of the saudi consulate, and departed istanbul airport on hzsk2 at 22:54 on 2 october. the jet returned to riyadh via dubai, landing late on 3 october. unnamed turkish officials have since alleged that dr tubaigy can be heard in audio recordings from inside the consulate on the day of mr khashoggi's disappearance, when they believe the journalist was tortured, killed and dismembered by the saudi team who flew into the country.  a man identified as the doctor can be heard recommending that other people join him in listening to music on headphones while he cuts up mr khashoggi's body, according to the officials. dr tubaigy has not commented. but a man who said he was the doctor's uncle tweeted that he would never carry out "such criminal acts". mr mutreb is believed to have spent two years working at the saudi embassy in london. a document published by the british government in 2007 listed a man with that name as first secretary.  a surveillance source confirmed to the bbc his identity as "an intelligence security operative", having met him in 2011 and trained him in how to use offensive  spyware  technology on behalf of the saudi state. the  spyware  trainers nicknamed mr mutreb "dark face", the source said, "because he looked always grumpy... he was very silent." khashoggi suspect had 'cyber spy' training cnn cited a saudi source in london who knew mr mutreb as describing him as a colonel in saudi intelligence, while the popular arabic app menom3ay - which enables users to see the names people have linked to phone numbers - lists a man with that name as a colonel in the royal court.   photographs also show that he has travelled abroad with saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman on at least three occasions since march 2018, suggesting he may have had a security role.  the turkish pro-government newspaper sabah also published pictures from cctv footage that appeared to show mr mutreb entering the saudi consulate in istanbul at 09:55 on 2 october, just over three hours before the journalist arrived, and at the nearby consul-general's residence at 16:53. turkish media said mr mutreb arrived in istanbul on the private jet hzsk2 along with dr tubaigy, and also stayed at the mövenpick hotel.  he flew out of istanbul on another private jet owned by sky prime aviation with the tail number hzsk1, at 18:40 on 2 october, according to turkish media.  the new york times cited a french "professional" who had worked with the saudi royal family as identifying him as a member of the security team that travels with crown prince mohammed bin salman.  someone with the same name is also listed on menom3ay as a member of the saudi royal guard regiment. mr alhawsawi flew to istanbul on a commercial flight, going through passport control at 01:43 on 2 october.  he stayed at the wyndham grand istanbul levant hotel, about 1km (0.6 miles) south of the saudi consulate, and left istanbul on hzsk2 with dr tubaigy. last october, a man with that name serving in the royal guard was promoted to lieutenant for bravery in the defence of the crown prince's palace in jeddah. in the incident, a gunman shot dead two royal guards and wounded three others before being killed.  mr alharbi arrived in istanbul on the private jet hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he also flew out on the private jet hzsk1. a man by that name is listed on menom3ay as a member of the royal guard.  a guard wearing a badge with that name also appears to have been photographed and filmed standing next to crown prince mohammed bin salman at an event in 2007, according to the activist iyad el-baghdadi.  turkish media said mr alzahrani arrived in istanbul on a commercial flight, and that he stayed at the wyndham grand and flew out on the private jet hzsk2. but the washington post said a man who answered a call placed to the number listed on menom3ay denied being in turkey when mr khashoggi disappeared. a man by that name is identified on menom3ay with the royal guard. the washington post reports that a saudi passport held by a man with the same name was used to enter the us on trips that coincided with three visits by saudi royals. he flew to istanbul on a commercial flight and stayed at the wyndham grand. he went through passport control at istanbul airport at 20:28 before departing. a facebook account of a man with that name included photographs of someone in uniform bearing saudi special forces insignia, according to qutaibi idlbi, a saudi-born syrian entrepreneur based in washington who said he was an acquaintance of mr khashoggi mr alarifi is also listed on menom3ay as an employee of the crown prince's office. he arrived in istanbul on a commercial flight and went through passport control at 16:12. he stayed at the wyndham grand and departed on the private jet hzsk2. he is identified on menom3ay as someone who works for saudi intelligence. mr almadani arrived on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he went through passport control at istanbul airport at 00:18 on 3 october before leaving on a commercial flight. the facebook page of a man with the same name as mr albostani listed his position as a lieutenant in the saudi air force.  on menom3ay he is described as a bodyguard in the royal guard, according to mr idlbi. mr albostani went through passport control at istanbul airport at 01:45 on 2 october and stayed at the wyndham grand. he departed on the private jet hzsk2. on 18 october, the turkish pro-government newspaper yeni safak reported there were claims that mr albostani had died in a "suspicious car accident" in riyadh, but provided no details.   a man with that name serving in the saudi air force was promoted to the rank of squadron leader by the crown prince last year, according to local media.  mr alsehri flew in on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he departed on hzsk1. a man with the same name is identified on menom3ay as working for saudi intelligence, according to qutaibi idlbi.  a man by that name was also described as a colonel in the general directorate of civil defence in a 2014 article by a local newspaper.   mr abahussein arrived at istanbul airport on a commercial flight and stayed at the wyndham grand. he left on board hzsk2. a man with that name is listed on menom3ay as a member of the royal guard. mr albalawi arrived on one of the private jets and stayed at the mövenpick. he flew out on hzsk1. someone with that name is listed on menom3ay as a major in saudi intelligence, according to mr idlbi. mr alotaibi flew into istanbul on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he flew out on hzsk1. a man with his name is identified on menom3ay as working in the service of crown prince mohammed bin salman, according to the washington post.   mr alqahtani arrived in istanbul on the private jet hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he went through passport control at istanbul airport at 00:20 on 3 october before leaving on a commercial flight. he arrived on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he left on hzsk1. germany's justice minister has called for a national and state level probe into the use of controversial computer software to spy on people.the german state of bavaria has admitted using the  spyware , but claimed it had acted within the law.three other states have also confirmed they have used  spyware  in order to investigate serious criminal offences, a german newspaper reports.use of the software was exposed by a german hacker group.stephen evans reports. two-thirds of big uk businesses have been hit by a cyber attack in the past year, according to government research.  most of the attacks involved computer-virus es,  spyware  or  malware , the cyber security breaches survey says. a quarter of large firms experiencing a cyber breach did so at least once a month. digital economy minister ed vaizey said it was "absolutely crucial businesses are secure and can protect data". in some cases the internet-linked attacks cost millions of pounds. the survey's results have been released alongside the government's cyber governance health check, launched following the talktalk cyber attack in october last year. the phone and broadband provider, which has over four million uk customers, said some of their banking details and personal information could have been accessed in the breach. in light of these surveys, businesses are now being urged to protect themselves better. mr vaizey said: "the uk is a world-leading digital economy and this government has made cyber security a top priority. "too many firms are losing money, data and consumer confidence with the vast number of cyber attacks. it's absolutely crucial businesses are secure and can protect data." the survey also suggested seven out of 10 attacks could have been prevented, and added that only a fifth of businesses understand the dangers of sharing information with third parties. the government is investing £1.9bn over the next five years to tackle and prevent cyber crime, and a new national cyber security centre will offer security support. also, a national cyber security strategy will be published later this year, setting out proposals to improve online security for the government, among businesses and for consumers. a document that appears to give the most powerful insight yet into how china determined the fate of hundreds of thousands of muslims held in a network of internment camps has been seen by the bbc. listing the personal details of more than 3,000 individuals from the far western region of xinjiang, it sets out in intricate detail the most intimate aspects of their daily lives. the painstaking records - made up of 137 pages of columns and rows - include how often people pray, how they dress, whom they contact and how their family members behave. china denies any wrongdoing, saying it is combating terrorism and religious extremism. the document is said to have come, at considerable personal risk, from the same source inside xinjiang that leaked a batch of highly sensitive material published last year. one of the world's leading experts on china's policies in xinjiang, dr adrian zenz, a senior fellow at the victims of communism memorial foundation in washington, believes the latest leak is genuine. "this remarkable document presents the strongest evidence i've seen to date that beijing is actively persecuting and punishing normal practices of traditional religious beliefs," he says. one of the camps mentioned in it, the "number four training centre" has been identified by dr zenz as among those visited by the bbc as part of a tour organised by the chinese authorities in may last year. much of the evidence uncovered by the bbc team appears to be corroborated by the new document, redacted for publication to protect the privacy of those included in it. it contains details of the investigations into 311 main individuals, listing their backgrounds, religious habits, and relationships with many hundreds of relatives, neighbours and friends. verdicts written in a final column decide whether those already in internment should remain or be released, and whether some of those previously released need to return. 'i spent seven days of hell in chinese camps'the leading uighur geographer who vanished in china it is evidence that appears to directly contradict china's claim that the camps are merely schools. in an article analysing and verifying the document, dr zenz argues that it also offers a far deeper understanding of the real purpose of the system. it allows a glimpse inside the minds of those making the decisions, he says, laying bare the "ideological and administrative micromechanics" of the camps. row 598 contains the case of a 38-year-old woman with the first name helchem, sent to a re-education camp for one main reason: she was known to have worn a veil some years ago. it is just one of a number of cases of arbitrary, retrospective punishment. others were interned simply for applying for a passport - proof that even the intention to travel abroad is now seen as a sign of radicalisation in xinjiang. in row 66, a 34-year-old man with the first name memettohti was interned for precisely this reason, despite being described as posing "no practical risk". and then there's the 28-year-old man nurmemet in row 239, put into re-education for "clicking on a web-link and unintentionally landing on a foreign website". again, his case notes describe no other issues with his behaviour. the 311 main individuals listed are all from karakax county, close to the city of hotan in southern xinjiang, an area where more than 90% of the population is uighur. predominantly muslim, the uighurs are closer in appearance, language and culture to the peoples of central asia than to china's majority ethnicity, the han chinese. in recent decades the influx of millions of han settlers into xinjiang has led to rising ethnic tensions and a growing sense of economic exclusion among uighurs. those grievances have sometimes found expression in sporadic outbreaks of violence, fuelling a cycle of increasingly harsh security responses from beijing.  it is for this reason that the uighurs have become the target - along with xinjiang's other muslim minorities, like the kazakhs and kyrgyz - of the campaign of internment. the "karakax list", as dr zenz calls the document, encapsulates the way the chinese state now views almost any expression of religious belief as a signal of disloyalty. to root out that perceived disloyalty, he says, the state has had to find ways to penetrate deep into uighur homes and hearts. in early 2017, when the internment campaign began in earnest, groups of loyal communist party workers, known as "village-based work teams", began to rake through uighur society with a massive dragnet. with each member assigned a number of households, they visited, befriended and took detailed notes about the "religious atmosphere" in the homes; for example, how many korans they had or whether religious rites were observed. the karakax list appears to be the most substantial evidence of the way this detailed information gathering has been used to sweep people into the camps. it reveals, for example, how china has used the concept of "guilt by association" to incriminate and detain whole extended family networks in xinjiang. for every main individual, the 11th column of the spreadsheet is used to record their family relationships and their social circle. the long read: china's hidden campsexplainer: china's muslim 'crackdown'searching for truth in china's 're-education' campschina denies muslim children separation campaign alongside each relative or friend listed is a note of their own background; how often they pray, whether they've been interned, whether they've been abroad. in fact, the title of the document makes clear that the main individuals listed all have a relative currently living overseas - a category long seen as a key indicator of potential disloyalty, leading to almost certain internment. rows 179, 315 and 345 contain a series of assessments for a 65-year-old man, yusup. his record shows two daughters who "wore veils and burkas in 2014 and 2015", a son with islamic political leanings and a family that displays "obvious anti-han sentiment". his verdict is "continued training" - one of a number of examples of someone interned not just for their own actions and beliefs, but for those of their family. the information collected by the village teams is also fed into xinjiang's big data system, called the integrated joint operations platform (ijop). the ijop contains the region's surveillance and policing records, culled from a vast network of cameras and the intrusive mobile  spyware  every citizen is forced to download. the ijop, dr zenz suggests, can in turn use its ai brain to cross-reference these layers of data and send "push notifications" to the village teams to investigate a particular individual. the man found "unintentionally landing on a foreign website" may well have been interned thanks to the ijop. in many cases though, there is little need for advanced technology, with the vast and vague catch-all term "untrustworthy" appearing multiple times in the document. it is listed as the sole reason for the internment of a total of 88 individuals. the concept, dr zenz argues, is proof that the system is designed not for those who have committed a crime, but for an entire demographic viewed as potentially suspicious.  china  says xinjiang has policies that "respect and ensure people's freedom of religious belief". it also insists that what it calls a "vocational training programme in xinjiang" is "for the purposes of combating terrorism and religious extremism", adding only people who have been convicted of crimes involving terrorism or religious extremism are being "educated" in these centres. however, many of the cases in the karakax list give multiple reasons for internment; various combinations of religion, passport, family, contacts overseas or simply being untrustworthy. the most frequently listed is for violating china's strict family planning laws. in the eyes of the chinese authorities it seems, having too many children is the clearest sign that uighurs put their loyalty to culture and tradition above obedience to the secular state. china has long defended its actions in xinjiang as part of an urgent response to the threat of extremism and terrorism. the karakax list does contain some references to those kinds of crimes, with at least six entries for preparing, practicing or instigating terrorism and two cases of watching illegal videos. but the broader focus of those compiling the document appears to be faith itself, with more than 100 entries describing the "religious atmosphere" at home. the karakax list has no stamps or other authenticating marks so, at face value, it is difficult to verify. it is thought to have been passed out of xinjiang sometime before late june last year, along with a number of other sensitive papers. they ended up in the hands of an anonymous uighur exile who passed all of them on, except for this one document. only after the first batch was published last year was the karakax list then forwarded to his conduit, another uighur living in amsterdam, asiye abdulaheb. she told the bbc that she is certain it is genuine. "regardless of whether there are official stamps on the document or not, this is information about real, live people," she says. "it is private information about people that wouldn't be made public. so there is no way for the chinese government to claim it is fake." like all uighurs living overseas, ms abdulaheb lost contact with her family in xinjiang when the internment campaign began, and she's been unable to contact them since. but she says she had no choice but to release the document, passing it to a group of international media organisations, including the bbc. "of course i am worried about the safety of my relatives and friends," she says. "but if everyone keeps silent because they want to protect themselves and their families, then we will never prevent these crimes being committed." at the end of last year china announced that everyone in its "vocational training centres" had now "graduated". however, it also suggested some may stay open for new students on the basis of their "free will". almost 90% of the 311 main individuals in the karakax list are shown as having already been released or as being due for release on completion of a full year in the camps. but dr zenz points out that the re-education camps are just one part of a bigger system of internment, much of which remains hidden from the outside world. more than two dozen individuals are listed as "recommended" for release into "industrial park employment" - career "advice" that they may have little choice but to obey. there are well documented concerns that china is now building a system of coerced labour as the next phase of its plan to align uighur life with its own vision of a modern society.  in two cases, the re-education ends in the detainees being sent to "strike hard detention", a reminder that the formal prison system has been cranked into overdrive in recent years. many of the family relationships listed in the document show long prison terms for parents or siblings, sometimes for entirely normal religious observances and practices. one man's father is shown to have been sentenced to five years for "having a double-coloured thick beard and organising a religious studies group". a neighbour is reported to have been given 15 years for "online contact with people overseas", and another man's younger brother given 10 years for "storing treasonable pictures on his phone". whether or not china has closed its re-education camps in xinjiang, dr zenz says the karakax list tells us something important about the psychology of a system that prevails. "it reveals the witch-hunt-like mindset that has been and continues to dominate social life in the region," he said. one of the world's largest independent tech support firms has been accused of routinely pressuring customers into buying software they do not need. in a washington state lawsuit, indian firm iyogi is accused of using scare tactics to mislead consumers. it is also accused of falsely claiming affiliation to microsoft, apple and hp. the firm has denied the allegations, describing them as "false" and "baseless". "while we are yet to receive the complaint through formal channels, based on our assessment of media reports we would like to firmly state that the allegations are false or baseless," said iyogi's co-founder vishal dhar in a statement to the bbc. "we recognise that tech support frauds are a real issue in the us and, as a responsible industry leader, we have been working with authorities... to counter the issue." he said that his firm would "do what is necessary" to see the case through "to its rightful end". attorney general bob ferguson alleged that "hundreds, if not thousands" of washington residents had been affected by what he described as iyogi's "unfair and deceptive" tactics, which he claimed violated washington's consumer protection and computer  spyware  laws. he is seeking $2,000 (£1,340) in civil penalties for each violation of the consumer protection act and $100,000 per violation for the computer  spyware  act. microsoft's chief legal officer brad smith attended a news conference announcing the lawsuit and applauded the state for its efforts to "protect consumers from tech support scams that have reached epidemic levels in recent years". he said that his firm had received more than 180,000 customer calls regarding tech support fraud. microsoft estimates that 3.3 million americans lose about $1.5bn annually from tech support scams. such scams tended to disproportionately affect "the most vulnerable segments of our society", he said, adding that tech support scams "have become a scourge on the internet". iyogi has more than 5,000 employees based at call centres in india. it says it serves more than three million customers across 11 countries. as part of its investigation the attorney general's office (ago) alleged that iyogi used the following tactics: in online ads it associated itself with major technology companies including microsoft, apple and hp, claiming to provide tech support services on their behalf it gained remote access to consumers' computers and identified complex-looking files, which it claimed were infected and could cause harm. it then encouraged consumers to download its diagnostic software to identify further computer problems it created reports that claim that there is  malware  or other serious defects when in fact the identified items were often routine programs that posed no threat it offered unnecessary tech support plans that could cost about $140 per year it attempted to sell consumers anti-virus software even if they already had some installed it offered to update pcs to the windows 10 operating system, which it sold for $80, even though microsoft offers the upgrade for free the ago also offered advice to avoid tech support scams: never give control of your computer to a third party unless you can confirm it is legitimate ask if there is a fee or subscription association with the service, and if there is, hang up do not provide social security numbers, banking, credit card or other financial information protect personal computers with legitimate and updated security software iyogi was earlier this year praised by us politicians when it set up a global centre in maine, employing 300 people. at the time, maine governor paul r lepage said that it was "encouraging" that iyogi was outsourcing jobs to america. norfolk is a dating scams hotspot, surrey succumbs to investment fraud and west and mid-wales suffers cold calling computer cons, according to data from uk cyber-crime centre action fraud. consumer watchdog which? has collated the data, which came via a freedom of information request and it wants the government to do more to tackle the problem. a recent office of national statistics survey suggested there are 5.4 million fraud and computer misuse cases a year. other findings include: northamptonshire residents are most likely to report suffering online shopping and auction scams - it affected 21.6 victims per 10,000 compared to 16.9 nationally those living in dorset fall for  computer-virus ,  malware  and  spyware  fraud with 15,561 reports from 2014 to 2016 warwickshire is a victim of retail fraud with 30,944 in the same timeframe. london is the fraud capital of a range of scams, including 16,249 reports of social media hacking which said that it could not explain why certain frauds occur more in some areas rather than others, partly because so many fraud cases go unreported so the data is incomplete. there were 264,204 frauds reported to action fraud in 2016 but this is likely to be a fraction of those that occur. which's report did suggest that certain demographics are targeted by different scams  - so, for example, fake computer fixes tend to focus on elderly women living in rural areas. members of the public can click on an interactive map to find out the most commonly occurring fraud in their county. dating fraud: the woman 'lovebombed' out of £300,000online dating fraud victim numbers at record highcompany directors targeted by identity fraudsters gareth shaw, which? money expert, thinks there is little doubt that online fraud is on the rise: "this research highlights how reported fraud in the uk is on the increase and the kinds of scams you are most likely to fall victim to will depend on where you live. "these criminals are constantly finding new ways to rip us off and those tackling fraud should be upping their game. the government needs to set out an ambitious agenda to tackle fraud, while law enforcement agencies need to be working harder to identify and protect the people most at risk from fraud."   commander dave clark, city of london police, national co-ordinator for economic crime said: "fraud and cyber crime are global problems with many of the offenders targeting uk citizens from overseas," "law enforcement is not the single solution to this phenomenon. the solution requires every individual, business and organisation to take responsibility to ensure they take steps to protect themselves and others." a former ukip mep on trial for alleged fraud had a poor relationship with leader nigel farage, a former aide told a court. john ison said he gave updates about nikki sinclaire at least once a week to mr farage "to protect the party". her defence claims he spied on her to ingratiate himself with ukip leaders. ms sinclaire, who denies misconduct in public office between 1 october 2009 and 31 july 2010, while a serving mep, is on trial at birmingham crown court. she also denies claims that between 14 october 2009 and 31 december 2010 she fraudulently transferred criminal property into her bank account. the court heard from barrister sean hammond, representing ms sinclaire, that there was a "background of hostility" between his client and mr farage. the defence said mr ison was treated by ms sinclaire as a "confidant" when she was trying to gain entry to the party's national executive committee in 2010, shortly after having lost the party whip. however, the court was told mr ison worked to "undermine" her, then sought to exploit confusion over the european expenses system as a back-up tactic. mr ison denied the claims. the defence also presented a text from mr ison to party colleague steve morson from january 2010 claiming to have "captured" data from ms sinclaire's laptop, alleging he had hacked her computer and installed  spyware  to gain information. during proceedings mr ison admitted sending the message to mr morson, but used his right not to incriminate himself by declining to answer whether he had breached the computer misuse act, when asked by mr hammond if he was behaving like "a spy or a mole", mr ison replied: "if you want to put it that way." he admitted the message "looked very bad" but denied wrongdoing. ms sinclaire, 47, of shirley in solihull, was west midlands mep until 2014. she is currently on bail and is expected to give evidence next week. the trial continues.  a man who allegedly created  malware  purporting to catch out cheating lovers has made it on to the fbi's "most wanted" list of cybercriminals. the fbi says carlos enrique perez-melara ran a website offering customers a way to "catch a cheating lover" by sending  spyware  masquerading as a greeting card. opening the card downloaded the  malware  on to the recipient's computer and recorded keystrokes and messages. the "lover spy" program cost $89 (£55). mr perez-melara was indicted in july 2005 but has avoided capture ever since, only now making it on to the fbi's most wanted list. he ran the operation from his san diego home in 2003, the fbi says, while he was in the us on a student travel visa. the charges against mr perez-melara, 33, included making, sending and advertising an interception device, and unlawfully intercepting electronic communications. the indictment said lover spy was designed "with stealth in mind, claiming that it would be impossible to detect by 99.9% of users".  but mr perez-melara has avoided the authorities ever since and his last known location was san salvador, the fbi said. the agency appears to have added the hacker to its list partly out of frustration at his elusiveness.  "these are sophisticated folks who know how to hide themselves on the internet,'' said john brown, who oversees the fbi's cyber-division. the agency has offered a $50,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.  according to the 2005 indictment, mr perez-melara sold the  malware  to 1,000 customers, who then used it to infect the computers of about 2,000 victims.  victims took the bait about half the time, the government said.  people who bought the  spyware  were charged with illegally intercepting electronic communications. online poker players are being targeted by a  computer-virus  that spies on their virtual cards. the software shares the cards with the computer-virus 's creators who then join the same game and try to fleece the victim. the sneaky  malware  has been found lurking in software designed to help poker fans play better, said the security firm that found it. the software also targets other useful information on a victim's computer such as login names and passwords. the  malware  targets players of the pokerstars and full tilt poker sites, said robert lipovsky, a security researcher at eset, in a blogpost.  when it infects a machine, the software monitors the pc's activity and springs to life when a victim has logged in to either one of the two poker sites. it then starts taking screenshots of their activity and the cards they are dealt. screenshots are then sent to the attacker. the images show the hand the player has been dealt as well as their player id. this, said eset, allows the attacker to search the sites for that player and join their game. using information about a victim's hand gives the attacker a significant advantage. "we are unsure whether the perpetrator plays the games manually or in some automated way," wrote mr lipovsky. eset found the windows  malware  lurking in some well-known file-sharing applications, pc utilities as well as several widely used poker calculators and player databases. eset said the  spyware  had been active for several months and most victims were in eastern europe, particularly russia and the ukraine. groups of pro-assad hackers are using social media and the lure of disturbing online videos to hack into the computers of rival groups in syria. last year, the syrian electronic army rose to prominence when they hacked into news websites and twitter accounts run by the bbc, cbs, and other high profile media organisations. now the group appears to be using "social engineering tricks" - offering content that typically goes viral on social media - to install  spyware  on computers belonging to those who oppose the assad regime. and they appear to be working. internet security firm kaspersky estimates the  malware  has been downloaded around 10,000 times. one of the tricks involves promoting videos claiming to be of victims injured in recent attacks by the assad regime. when attempting to download the clips from file sharing sites, rogue software is downloaded as well, which could give hackers access to the computer. if successful, they can record keystrokes, obtain passwords, and record online phone calls. another piece of bait used is a letter which purports to be between syrian military units detailing forthcoming chemical attacks. other methods include posting messages on facebook encouraging users to protect themselves from government attacks by installing "ammazon internet security" software - a fake anti-virus programme designed to compromise the user's machine. david emm works for kaspersky lab, an internet security firm that produced a report about the attacks.  "it's social engineering. it's aimed at people who would be shocked or angered by what's been posted," he tells bbc trending. although it is impossible to be certain they are the work of the syrian electronic army, there are clues that suggest they are involved. as well as the nature of the content itself, the  spyware  is passing information back to a server with an ip address provided by the tarassul, as isp associated with the syrian government. once infiltrated, the machines can be used to collect intelligence, and disrupt opposition networks. emm says the attacks are likely to become both more prolific and more sophisticated as the conflict continues. social networks have played a huge role in the syrian conflict to date. government regulated news broadcasts have pushed many people online in a search for more information. social media has been used for everything from breaking news, to documenting battles, and fundraising for opposition forces. reporting by sam judah have you subscribed the bbc trending podcast? you can do so here via itunes or here all our stories are at bbc.com/trending what do we know about the curious, secretive nso group? very little - but after this week, an awful lot more than we did before. the group, an israeli-based but american-owned company, specialises in creating what it calls tools against crime and terrorism. but the security researchers call them something else: a cyber arms dealer. on thursday, the nso group was thrust into international headlines after being credited with creating  malware  capable of "jailbreaking" any iphone with just one tap of the screen, and then installing vicious  spyware . founded in 2010 and has had several different namesbased in herzliya, israel, and owned by us investment firm francisco partnerscould be worth $1bn security-savvy human rights lawyer ahmed mansoor found himself targeted by the attack when his iphone received a message promising "secrets" about torture happening in prisons in the united arab emirates.  had he tapped on the link, the phone would have been plundered. huge amounts of private data: text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what’s being picked up by the device’s microphone and camera. thankfully, he didn't do that. instead, he passed on the message to experts at citizen lab and lookout, who peeled back the covers on what they described as one of the most sophisticated cyber weapons ever discovered. with it came evidence that it was the nso group’s expertise at the heart of it all. earlier this year, uk-based watchdog privacy international launched a database tracking the global trade of cyber arms. its intention was to track deals between cyber arms companies and governments. according to the surveillance industry index (sii), the nso group was founded in 2010 and is based in herzliya, an attractive city north of tel aviv that is known as being a cluster of tech start-ups. the group was likely funded by the elite 8200 intelligence unit, an israeli military-funded scheme for start-ups.  according to forbes, the 8200 intelligence unit was heavily involved in providing expertise and funding for stuxnet, a cyber attack on iran that was a joint operation between the us and israel.  listed in the ssi were multi-million dollar deals made between the nso group and government entities in mexico and panama. this is the tip of the iceberg -  press reports of sales rely on leaks and anonymous sources, and so there are likely many more unknown to the general public.  in 2015, the nso group’s owners -  us-based venture capital firm francisco partners  - were looking to sell the company at a value of around $1bn. neither firm has responded to the bbc’s requests for further comment. that the nso group sells tools to governments is no secret  -  in a statement released in response to claims it was behind the attack on mr mansoor, nso group spokesman zamir dahbash said: "the company sells only to authorized governmental agencies, and fully complies with strict export control laws and regulations." but the company has gone no further than that in describing who its customers are, and what exactly they buy. it does say it has no control over how its tools are used and for what purpose. whatever the origin of the nso group, what has been created is an extraordinarily talented team of cyber specialists. the attack on mr mansoor, had it worked, would have utilised not one but three zero day attacks. a "zero day" is a term given to vulnerabilities that were previously unknown to the security industry, and are therefore wide open to attack. to discover one zero day is rare, to find three is outstanding. clues to the origin of the attack came when the experts looked at the messages mr mansoor received. a link was included to a web domain known to point to servers set up by the nso group for its customers. when the researchers analysed the  spyware ’s code, they noticed apparent references to "pegasus", the name given, by the nso group, to one of its spying products. details about pegasus were made public last year when another cyber arms firm, called the hacking team, was itself breached. material used to market pegasus was subsequently leaked.  when apple was made aware of the vulnerabilities in its iphone, it acted quickly, patching the problem in 10 days and pushing out an update to all of its users. that has neutralised this specific attack, sure, but there'll likely be many more that remain hidden from view.  in a rare interview with defense news, the nso group’s co-founder, omri lavie, said their attacks would "leave no trace".  thanks to the quick thinking of mr mansoor, and the forensic efforts of researchers, the group has been temporarily dragged into the limelight - but it will only be for a brief moment. soon the nso group  will rejoin the rest of the money-spinning cyber arms trade back in the shadows. follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc and on facebook an employee of south korea's national intelligence service (nis) spying agency has been found dead in his car after apparently taking his own life on a mountain road, police say. his death comes as a scandal over phone-hacking gathers pace.  the man left a suicide note admitting that he had deleted important information about the hacking. it has emerged that mobile phones were tracked and monitored just before the presidential election in 2012. government and nis officials have denied opposition claims that the  spyware  - bought from an italian company - was used to monitor south koreans in general. they insist that its purpose was to boost the country's cyber-warfare capabilities against north korea.  the bbc's stephen evans, in south korea, says that the note left by the dead man implies that phones were monitored only to keep tabs on people connected to north korea and not to besmirch opponents of the right-of-centre president. the spy agency had a scandalous reputation in the years before south korea embraced democracy in the 1980s, and was involved in abductions and killings. the modern nis is not accused of such serious offences but has nevertheless been embroiled in several scandals, including election meddling. opposition politicians allege that it is not politically neutral, breaks the law and is a political tool for sitting presidents. last week the supreme court ordered a review of the conviction of former nis head won sei-hoon, who was sentenced to three years in jail in february for trying to influence the results of the 2012 presidential election. katie price, jude law and victoria beckham are the three most dangerous celebrities to search for online. internet researchers claim more than 16% of links related to the subject of katie price were found to contain dodgy computer-virus es. links and sites related to kate moss, david beckham, daniel radcliffe, kerry katona, amy winehouse, cheryl cole and leona lewis made up the rest of the top 10. websites can be compromised by being loaded with  spyware  that collects information about users without their knowledge, and computer-virus es that can infiltrate computers. computer protection firm mcafee looked at popular search engines like google and yahoo! and weighed up the risk of clicking on celebrity-related website links. security analyst greg day said: "cybercrooks capitalising on the public obsession with celebrities and current events is nothing new. "a quick flick across the front pages of the latest popular newspapers and magazines offers a fairly reliable snapshot of where the criminals will focus their efforts next." i now pronounce you chuck and larry actress jessica biel was found to be the riskiest us celebrity target. the markets have not been moved much by theresa may's tears, because they don't see her resignation changing much, or reducing the levels of uncertainty around brexit. a rift has opened up between tories and former friends in business. business lobbies are calling ever more forcefully for westminster to sort out brexit while avoiding a 'no deal' departure.the report card on the may premiership has some changes to economic policy, but her fall opens the way for a bigger change, on the conservative approach to immigration. when a corporate chief executive quits, it's sometimes worth a look at the share price. a sharp rise suggests that the boss was holding back the company, and an exit was overdue: a fall indicates that investors saw the boss's presence as an important part of its future. so how did the market react to theresa may's announcement? by doing nothing much. the pound weakened 0.25% against the us dollar. the ftse250 edged up.   that is partly because investors had already priced in her departure. they could see she wasn't going to cut a deal that got the government through brexit, so assumed she would be resigning before long. and with her gone, they can also see - as we all can - that there's little alternative route out of the political impasse under any other conservative prime minister. meanwhile, there are other factors at play in the markets which give a better explanation of recent fluctuations, including the ramping up of a trans-pacific trade war between the us and china. just ahead of the announcement, the latest retail figures were issued by the office for national statistics, showing the volume of goods sold up by 5.2% year on year. the value was flat, after a very strong first quarter. add to that an unemployment rate at a 44-year low, and employment at record levels, and you can see the economic record while theresa may was in downing street wasn't so bad at all. if she had focused on that, there might have been a less tearful conclusion to her time in office. but the economy was never, personally, her main interest or strong point. it was a factor within the overarching determination to push through brexit, but it was treated as if it were dispensable or an after-thought. for some, it could be compromised in the endeavour to placate those who saw the return of sovereignty as being of more value than the diminished growth rate which most economists reckon would follow. in the turmoil within her cabinet, it was left to the minority of ministers with economic portfolios to remind colleagues of the potential damage to businesses and the economy. phillip hammond, as chancellor of the exchequer, and greg clark as business secretary, often cut lonely figures in making that case. under may's leadership, a gulf opened up between the conservatives and big business, which has been causing alarm to both sides of that relationship. business lobbies have become increasingly frustrated that the internal conservative debate about brexit has been carried on with little reference to their warnings, which have been particularly strong about the potential damage of "no deal". when the cbi director-general visited edinburgh recently, for a lunch with members, the guest speaker was due to be labour shadow chancellor john mcdonnell. he didn't make it to the scottish capital due to the (doomed) brexit talks with the government. but the invitation was a sign that the business lobby is turning its attention (with quite a lot of alarm) to the prospect of jeremy corbyn and labour taking power. the common message to all those reacting to the therexit of mrs may is that it doesn't change the arithmetic or provide a solution. indeed, it prolongs the uncertainty, and introduces the risk of a harder-line brexiteer pushing for departure without a deal. the institute of directors, with a gently mocking tone, repeats the prime minister's words when she had a botched double launch of her long term care policy during that disastrous election campaign in 2017. "nothing has changed," says the iod boss. "at least not much. a new leader will be faced with the same political challenges and the same economic realities. no deal remains a significant and growing concern for businesses and that cannot be wished away, whoever is in power. "when companies and the country need serious, considered decision-making, we have pantomime instead." according to carolyn fairbairn, director-general of the cbi, theresa may "leaves office with the respect of business".  "but her resignation must be now be a catalyst for change," she added. "there can be no plan for britain without a plan for brexit.  "winner takes all politics is not working. jobs and livelihoods are at stake. business and the country need honesty. nation must be put ahead of party, prosperity ahead of politics. compromise and consensus must re-find their voice in parliament". a similar message came from liz cameron at the scottish chambers of commerce: "we now urge political leaders to put country before personal ambitions, to ensure focus remains on solving the brexit riddle.  "westminster has already squandered far too much time going around in circles. they must realise that lack of direction has real-world economic consequences, causing the collapse of business confidence, which has a deleterious impact on investments and jobs." some changes to economic policy under theresa may's premiership are worth noting. she pulled back on george osborne's focus on the northern powerhouse in the north of england. an industrial policy was being developed.   the government dolloped money into growth sectors where it saw strategic interest. but this was submerged by the battle to protect sectors, such as car-making and steel, that are particularly vulnerable to brexit disruption. and in recent weeks, the need to open trade out beyond the european union tripped up over the pacific trade war.  the downing street cabinet was split between welcoming chinese telecoms technology (the prime minister's preference), and supporting the american case that huawei carries too much potential as  spyware . being a much smaller trading power than the eu, and with trade deals to be done, expect more similar dilemmas. as chancellor, phillip hammond dialled back on the austerity rhetoric, and pushed back his predecessor's target date for reaching a surplus.  while the whitehall welfare budget continued to see big cuts, the biggest of them through the freeze on working-age benefits, the flow of funds to the national health service was increased. and what of the future? apart from the dominant question of brexit, and how to make it happen, the next conservative leader will have the opportunity to re-shuffle the cabinet, putting different people into the economic ministries, and shifting economic policy. my hunch is that there won't be enormous change, because there isn't the time, government headspace or political capital to do much beyond brexit. but one factor to watch is immigration. theresa may has had a stranglehold on immigration policy for nine years since she became home secretary. it was on that that she placed her reputation for toughness. she gave us the policy of making a "hostile environment" for those facing deportation, meanwhile blundering into the windrush fiasco, of excluding long-time residents of the uk who had been invited 60 years ago from the caribbean to fill labour market gaps. mrs may shut out new thinking about how to handle immigration. behind the leave majority, it played a significant part. even for the six years before that vote, her response to public opinion about it was to set an unrealistic target for reducing net migration to below 100,000 and then to stick to it, while deaf to unintended consequences - for instance, on overseas student recruitment. the rest of the cabinet has sometimes been infuriated by mrs may's intransigence on this when she was home secretary. now in that role, sajid javid doesn't much care for the sub-100,000 target. in launching a consultation on post-brexit immigration, he quietly dropped it. that consultation features the question of what salary level should be set for an eu or non-eu national to get a work permit in britain. the proposed level is £30,000, which business groups say is far too high to recruit the skilled staff they need in more junior roles. the next tory leader and prime minister is likely to want to take a more flexible approach than theresa may. in scotland, such a change would be welcomed across holyrood's political spectrum, and by business lobbies. as 2019 splutters to a close, it's time for our annual lookback at our most-read tech stories, and to ask: "what happened next?". facebook and its family of apps dominates this year's list with four entries - it  probably won't be a surprise that none of them were particularly brand-enhancing.  the chinese viral video app tiktok makes the cut for the first time. and many of the other "big tech" names are there too in one form or another. but there are a few notable exceptions. neither elon musk nor tesla made it, despite the window-smashing launch of the cybertruck and plans to hack our brains. google's co-founders were originally on the list after deciding to give up day-to-day control of their empire, but were squeezed out just before publication. video gaming also missed out, even though prince harry attracted lots of attention for suggesting fortnite should be banned. and both huawei and samsung are absent, even though the former's loss of google's apps and the latter's folding phone fiasco were two of the year's standout developments. in any case, here's what attracted most eyeballs in each month of the year: january: when three becomes one a leak forced facebook to reveal plans to merge the behind-the-scenes tech of messaging on whatsapp, messenger and instagram. the effort was reported to be a pet project of chief executive mark zuckerberg.  he later justified the move saying it would draw the three products closer together, making it easier for users to send posts between them. furthermore, he said it would also help the firm expand its end-to-end  encryption  features, which help keep the messages secure.  many observers noted, however, the action would also make it more difficult to split the company apart. and as the year went on that became a growing threat, with first senator elizabeth warren and then other democratic presidential candidates suggesting facebook has too much power and influence. but it may not take a change of administration for mr zuckerberg's ambitions to be thwarted. the wall street journal recently reported that the federal trade commission may intervene to prevent the apps being integrated. february: don't be scared social media, the mainstream news and even the police all got in a tizzy over momo for no good reason in february. it was claimed that youngsters' social media accounts were being "hacked" to show the bulging-eyed monster alongside "challenges" that would put their lives at risk.  online articles followed, linking more than 100 teenagers' deaths in russia to the sensation. except, of course, there was no evidence to back up any of this.  this was not even the first time an image of the japanese bird-woman sculpture had gone viral. there had been a similar smaller-scale scare in 2018 when the "game" had been linked to deaths in south america and india - again without any documented proof.  pundits described it as a "panic [that] won't go away". except it did.  these days a search for momo on twitter turns up ads for masks of the ghoul, but little else.  and on tiktok the hashtag #momochallenge surfaces videos of people cooking and eating small dumplings that go by the same name in parts of asia. march: turn it off and on again facebook's family of apps experienced 14 hours of disruption, in what was billed as their "most severe outage" to date.  in many cases, users were unable to access the services at all over the period. and it took the firm about another 10 hours to give itself the all-clear, at which point it tweeted that a "server configuration change" had been to blame.  that allowed it to deny suggestions that it had been hacked, while remaining suitably vague about the actual cause. april: how did they get in? cyber-security experts despaired after a study indicated that the most popular online password was "123456".  the uk's national cyber security centre's finding came with a warning that the string of digits is not only easy to guess, but would be one of the first codes tested by automated hacking tools.  the public is advised to instead register a different complex login for each service they join, and use a password manager. but the hassle involved in having to copy and paste them in each time, has encouraged the adoption of biometric tests that automate the process if users pass a face, eyes or fingerprint id check. another alternative is to log in via another platform and let it do the heavy lifting. and in september, apple joined the party when it allowed users to access third-party apps via a new sign in with apple button, mirroring earlier efforts by google, facebook and twitter. may: whatsapp cracked when whatsapp confirmed that a vulnerability in its app had been exploited to install surveillance software on victims' phones, one of the immediate questions was how widespread the attack had been.  it took until october to get some clarification, at which point facebook said it believed about 1,400 of its users had been directly compromised. it added that they included "at least 100 human rights defenders, journalists and other members of civil society" across at least 20 countries.  the tech firm alleges nso group, an israeli private security firm, is responsible and is currently suing it in the us courts. nso disputes the claim and has said it will "vigorously fight" the case.  whatever the outcome, the affair highlighted that if an attacker can load  spyware  onto a target's phone or other device, end-to-end  encryption  and other security measures may be in vain. june: the death of etika brooklyn-based desmond "etika" amofah had a large online following, thanks to his quick wit and nintendo video-game reaction videos on youtube and twitch. but in mid-june he caused concern when he posted a clip in which he discussed suicide. days later the new york city police department confirmed he had killed himself.  several of his friends and colleagues have since taken steps to memorialise him. an online store sells goods branded with his logo, and donates its profits to the national alliance on mental illness. youtuber pewdiepie also teamed up with actor jack black to raise further funds for the charity in etika's name.  others have marked the tragedy by getting themed tattoos. a still active twitter account - @etika - was created to keep his memory alive. and last month, a large mural was unveiled in brooklyn featuring the gamer's face alongside a pair of nintendo switch controllers.  most recently, youtube faced complaints for not referencing the late creator in its rewind recap of the year. "no one should be surprised that youtube still doesn't understand its platform," posted one frustrated user.  in any case, etika's claim in his final video that "this world's gonna forget me" shows no sign of coming true any time soon. if you've been affected by a mental health issue, help and support is available. visit bbc action line for more information about support services. july: photo glitches further technical problems at facebook hq prevented users being able to upload new photos and videos to its apps, and in some cases prevented existing ones being viewable. the disruption lasted for about nine hours.  facebook never really explained the cause, beyond saying it had been triggered by a maintenance operation. other smaller glitches persisted throughout the year, including intermittent outages in the us on thanksgiving. but given that it now serves more than 2.4 billion users who log into at least one of its services once a month, it is a considerable feat of engineering to keep everything ticking along. august: iphone booby traps studies indicate that apple's mobile devices face fewer serious cyber-security threats than android-powered equivalents. so when google revealed that hackers were using booby-trapped websites to exploit previously unidentified flaws in ios, potentially affecting "thousands of visitors per week", it was big news.  google added that compromised handsets made it possible for the perpetrators to steal private messages, photos and location data in real-time. for days there was speculation about who might have been exposed. apple eventually released a statement saying it believed that fewer than a dozen websites focused on "content related to the uighur community" had been affected. many took this to suggest that the chinese state was involved. however, apple did not explicitly draw this conclusion itself, which was unsurprising given its ties to the country. this was not apple's only uighur-related controversy this year. the campaign group sum of us has repeatedly claimed that the firm's willingness to comply with a chinese ban on virtual private network (vpn) apps has made it harder for civil rights defenders to safely discuss claims of abuses against the ethnic minority. the organisation now plans to raise the matter at apple's next annual shareholders' meeting.  september: more cameras the iphone 11 range got more cameras, longer-lasting batteries and a new "pro" moniker for the top-of-the-range models. but there was no 5g - despite samsung, huawei and other rivals having already launched compatible smartphones. and whispers that apple chief executive tim cook might be ready to unveil an augmented reality headset accessory, proved to be unfounded.  market watchers have since reported the iphones sold better than they expected - particularly in the us and western europe. and there is now talk of 2020 being the year of an "iphone supercycle" thanks to an expected revamped design along with the introduction of 5g. october: jedi wars amazon - and many outsiders - thought it had the strongest bid for a high-profile contract to provide the pentagon with cloud computing and artificial intelligence services. so there were shockwaves when satya nadella's microsoft clinched the so-called jedi deal instead. it could be worth as much as $10bn (£7.7bn) over time. not only was this a big sum to miss out on, but microsoft's marketing team should also find it easier to pitch the firm's azure services to other government departments and private companies as a consequence. this could put amazon web services' current status as the market leader under strain. amazon is challenging the award, claiming that president trump pressured the department of defense into rejecting its bid because of a personal vendetta against its chief executive jeff bezos. all of this could all have ramifications for the 2020 presidential election. regulation of big tech is already on the agenda, and amazon could make a tempting target for mr trump during the campaign. but if mr bezos believes the republican leader's re-election could threaten his business, his status as one of the world's richest men and the owner of the washington post could make him a formidable foe. november: the eyes have it at the start of the year, tiktok was fairly obscure beyond its core teenage audience. these days it is one of the most talked about apps. it has launched one meme after another, and earned a reputation as being one of the most joyous places to be on the internet. but there are also concerns about it being chinese-owned. matters came to a head last month when an american teenager posted a video that started off like an eyelash beauty tutorial. but creator feroza aziz quickly changed tack to criticise china's treatment of the uighurs. her clip went viral. shortly afterwards, the 17-year-old discovered she had been blocked from posting new material. and soon after that, tiktok took the clip offline. then the social network reversed course. it put back the clip, blaming the removal on a "human moderation error". and it re-established ms aziz's access, saying that she had been locked out because of unrelated past behaviour.  the app insisted that there had been no attempt to suppress criticism of the chinese government's actions, but ms aziz was not convinced. she has continued to flag concern about the uighurs. and in her latest "skin care" video also raises awareness about india's controversial citizenship law, which offers illegal immigrants from nearby countries amnesty but only if they are non-muslims - something she claims is "immoral". for whatever reason, the post has attracted far more views on twitter and instagram than the copy posted to tiktok. meanwhile, tiktok bosses are reportedly looking for a new global headquarters outside of china to help reinforce their claims to autonomy. but the app's owner bytedance has denied rumours that it might sell off the division to give it true independence. december: age of the splinternet? it's been a long while since the internet was a free-for-all, in which governments had little ability to restrict what their citizens did online. even so, russia's announcement that it had successfully tested what it terms a "sovereign internet" still felt like a significant moment. the initiative involves forcing all web traffic through special nodes - a term for network connection points - where content can be filtered to remove what is deemed to be risky material. furthermore, the intention is that in an "emergency" all data from outside the country could be blocked and the runet - a term for the russian internet - isolated. the achievement is described in the state media as a way to protect domestic companies and government bodies from cyber-attacks. but human rights campaigners warn that once the effort is up and running, the kremlin may also use it to limit russian people's access to "undesirable" information. in doing so, the russian government would be following the path of its counterparts in china, saudi arabia and iran, which all censor dissenting voices.  and it would be following a wider trend. the us-based freedom house digital rights group has warned that global internet freedom declined for a ninth consecutive year in 2019. beyond russia, it highlighted kazakhstan, sudan and brazil as examples of places where digital surveillance, targeted cyber-attacks and/or online disinformation campaigns were cause for concern. we should hear more about russia's effort once president putin has had a chance to examine the results of the tests, and decides how to proceed. for now, a kremlin spokesman has denied it has any intention of "cutting the internet" up into separate parts. nearly a quarter of identity fraud victims in the uk last year were tech-savvy mobile and social media users, according to a credit checking service. experian identified the group, which only made up 8% of the population, as suffering the biggest rise in id theft. there was a 17% rise in victims among this group compared with 2014. the analysis comes shortly after fraud prevention service cifas said facebook, twitter and linkedin had become a "hunting ground" for identity thieves. experian said those on social media should be cautious about the information they shared, especially if details such as their pets' names were used as passwords elsewhere on the web. "it is vital that those embracing technology also embrace protecting themselves online.  using the latest device doesn't necessarily mean full protection and being complacent about the risk of id theft makes for a tempting target for id fraudsters," said nick mothershaw, a fraud expert from experian. the next biggest rise in identity theft was among older and retired households, predominantly living in rural communities. "these people are being targeted through phone and email scams by fraudsters trying to steal their details," said mr mothershaw.  "they tend to be less aware of the types of scams fraudsters undertake, who can be very manipulative and sound trustworthy on the phone. the sole rule is to never give out personal details, passwords or pins to anyone, whether it is on the phone or by email." a report published earlier this year estimated the annual cost of fraud in the uk was £193bn - equal to nearly £3,000 per head of population. be wary of publishing any identifying information about yourself - either in your profile or in your posts - such as phone numbers, pictures of your home, workplace or school, your address or birthdayuse the privacy features to restrict strangers' access to your profile. be on your guard against " phishing " scams, including fake friend requests and posts from individuals or companies inviting you to visit other pages or sitesbe aware of what friends post about you, or reply to your posts, particularly about your personal details and activitiespick a user name that does not include any personal information. for example, "joe_glasgow" or "jane_liverpool" would be bad choicesuse strong passwords. do not use the same password or pin for more than one account, and do not use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passwordupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti- spyware  programmes. up to 80% of cyber-threats can be removed by doing this source: cifas and get safe online how do you avoid being scammed? unmasking the fraudsters a sophisticated form of  malware  known as project sauron went undetected for five years at a string of organisations, according to security researchers. the  malware  may have been designed by a state-sponsored group. it can disguise itself as benign files and does not operate in predictable ways, making it harder to detect. experts from kaspersky lab and symantec said it allows the attacker to spy on infected computers. in september last year, kaspersky first detected the  malware  on an unspecified "government organisation" network. since then, the firm claims to have found evidence of project sauron at more than 30 organisations in russia, iran and rwanda. these were generally government, scientific, military, telecoms and financial organisations, according to kaspersky. separately, symantec said it had found the  malware  in other countries, including at an airline in china and an embassy in belgium. project sauron is able to disguise itself in a wide variety of ways - as files with names similar to those published by organisations like microsoft, for example, and does not always use the same methods for sending data back to the attacker. "the attackers clearly understand that we as researchers are always looking for patterns," the company notes in its report. "remove the patterns and the operation will be harder to discover." the  malware  can steal files, log all keystrokes and open a "back door" allowing wide-ranging access to the compromised computer, according to symantec. project sauron did not share any code with other known examples of similarly powerful  malware , said kaspersky's director of threat research costin raiu. "it really stands out by itself as something very, very sophisticated," he told the bbc. mr raiu also pointed out that two of the  malware 's victims had been infected with other highly sophisticated malicious programs. one victim was found to have regin  spyware  on their systems, for example. "this would suggest that the actor behind project sauron is perhaps different," suggested mr raiu. one aspect of project sauron that demonstrates the  malware 's sophistication is its ability to steal sensitive data - such as  encryption  keys - from computers that are not actually connected to the internet. this is known as "jumping the air-gap". for this, project sauron relies on an infected usb drive being inserted into the target computer. a hidden cache of files on the drive is then able to deposit  malware  on to that pc. it is not yet clear how the attackers would have used this method to control an air-gapped computer, but they believe it might have been via a "zero day" - previously undetected - exploit that they have not yet found. "we believe it was probably deployed in rare, hard-to-catch instances," notes the kaspersky report. project sauron is characteristic of state-sponsored style  malware , according to cybersecurity expert graham cluley. "these are very stealthy, insidious attacks that can lurk in the background for years gathering information," he told the bbc. "we have seen the steady progression and evolution of these sorts of attacks. as governments try to protect themselves and get clued up, it is essentially an arms race." two individuals associated with the leak of ashley madison customer details are reported to have taken their lives, according to police in canada. the police in toronto gave no further information about the deaths. ashley madison's canadian parent company avid life media is offering a c$500,000 (£240,000) reward for information on the hackers, they added. details of more than 33m accounts were stolen from the website, which offers users the chance to have an affair. addressing the hackers, known as the impact team, acting staff superintendent bryce evans of the toronto police said: "i want to make it very clear to you your actions are illegal and we will not be tolerating them. this is your wake-up call." police are seeking information from members of the wider hacker community that might aid their investigation. the breach was "very sophisticated", said detective menard from the technological crime unit of toronto police. mr evans confirmed that credit card data was included in the original data dump released by the impact team. he said that investigators believed this was limited to the last four digits of the main card number.  consequently, police are advising victims of the hack to review their accounts. he also explained that the hack had already led to a series of "spin-offs of crimes and further victimisation". "criminals have already engaged in online scams by claiming to provide access to the leaked websites," he said.  "the public needs to be aware that by clicking on these links you are exposing your computers to  malware ,  spyware ,  spyware  and computer-virus es." the unfolding of the hack was also detailed at the conference - from the moment on 12 july when several avid life media employees logged in to their computers and were confronted by a message from the hackers. this message was accompanied by music - ac/dc's "thunderstruck", said mr evans. "this hack is one of the largest data breaches in the world and is very unique on its own in that it exposed tens of millions of people's personal information," he added. police have set up a twitter account, @amcasetps, and hashtag, #amcasetps, in a bid to gather information about the hack from members of the public. in a statement, avid life media confirmed the offer of a financial reward for information and it believed the investigation was proceeding positively. "we are confident that the considerable investigative and prosecutorial power that is being brought to bear on this unprecedented crime will lead to arrests and convictions," the firm said. the number of victims of identity theft rose by 57% last year, figures from fraud prevention service cifas suggest. the data, taken from 261 companies in the uk, suggests fraudsters are increasingly getting people's personal information from social media sites. cifas said facebook, twitter and linkedin had become a "hunting ground" for identity thieves.  it said there were more than 148,000 victims in the uk in 2015 compared with 94,500 in 2014. a small percentage of cases involved fictitious identities but most fraudsters assumed the identity of a real person after accessing their name, date of birth, address and bank details. more than 85% of the frauds were carried out online. some personal details were found by hacking computers but increasingly fraudsters used social media to put together the pieces of someone's identity, cifas said.  it urged people to check their privacy settings and think carefully about what information they share online. how do you avoid being scammed? unmasking the fraudsters the curious case of leah palmer the get safe online campaign warns people not to give away details such as phone numbers, addresses or date of birth, or pictures of their home, workplace or school, in either profile information or posts. often victims did not even realise they had been targeted until a bill arrived for something they did not buy or they experienced problems with their credit rating, the fraud prevention service added. be wary of publishing any identifying information about yourself - either in your profile or in your posts - such as phone numbers, pictures of your home, workplace or school, your address or birthdayuse the privacy features to restrict strangers' access to your profile. be on your guard against " phishing " scams, including fake friend requests and posts from individuals or companies inviting you to visit other pages or sitesbe aware of what friends post about you, or reply to your posts, particularly about your personal details and activitiespick a user name that does not include any personal information. for example, "joe_glasgow" or "jane_liverpool" would be bad choicesuse strong passwords. do not use the same password or pin for more than one account, and do not use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passwordupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti- spyware  programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing this source: cifas and get safe online a report out earlier this year estimated the annual cost of fraud in the uk was £193bn - equal to nearly £3,000 per head of population. business fraud accounted for £144bn, the study said, while fraud against individuals was estimated at £9.7bn. simon dukes, cifas chief executive, said: "fraudsters are opportunists. as banks and lenders have become more adept at detecting false identities, fraudsters have focused on stealing and using genuine people's details instead.  "society, government and industry all have a role in preventing fraud. however, our concern is that the lack of awareness about identity fraud is making it even easier for fraudsters to obtain the information they need.  "the likes of facebook, twitter, linkedin and other online platforms are much more than just social media sites - they are now a hunting ground for identity thieves.  "we are urging people to check their privacy settings today and think twice about what they share. to a fraudster, the information we put online is a goldmine." could your children be your weak link when it comes to home security? one of mine almost was thanks to minecraft. one of my boys wanted to install a mod for it and needed me to approve it. and as i am paranoid about what runs on our main computer, i oversaw the whole process. at first, it all looked fine.  there are thousands of mods or add-ons for minecraft that make a variety of changes to the game. some add new blocks, others change the way it looks and some turn it into an entirely different game.  the one he wanted was hard to find, despite it being popular among his friends. when we found it, i was not sure we were getting it from the person who actually created it. i was suspicious because the site was festooned with buttons that looked like they would start the download but instead led to dead ends populated by links to download accelerators and other utilities we did not want. grubby ads blinked alongside. i'm not sure mature russian women are keen to meet my 12-year-old son. cybersecurity alert special index is your phone listening to you? how to hack the average home hanging out with the script kiddies ukraine blackout hacks 'could happen elsewhere' after a few dead ends, we clicked the right link but then had to wait while we were put through several re-directs and a pop-up page that could not be shut down if we wanted the mod.  we did, so we stuck with it and the download started. and kept going. and going. which was odd given it was only a few megabytes in size. my suspicions aroused, i killed the download over my son's protests. it was just as well. running it through an online  malware  scanner revealed that though it was not actively malicious it would have installed  spyware  and hijacked searches. definitely not the mod we wanted. soon afterwards, i found a warning about the page saying it was fake. that warning was circulated by the stop mod reposts campaign. it is attempting to stop popular mods being hijacked by conmen, computer-virus  writers and cyber-thieves.  it maintains a long, long list of the scam pages offering re-packaged mods. it even makes an extension for web browsers that warns when you stray on to a dodgy site. "minecraft is a huge target," said chris boyd, a security researcher at  malware bytes and a veteran scam-spotter. he has seen fake sites offering the game for free, fake pages asking visitors to log in with their minecraft name and password as well as a variety of other scams offering skins, capes and cheats. but, he said, there was a long history of cyber-conmen going after children and the things they do online. he remembers seeing scams in 1999 that targeted the economy around neopets - digital creatures popular with younger web users.  keep all software up-to-date and patched. use anti-virus and anti- spyware  software. and a firewall. give your children an account on a pc or laptop that restricts what they can install.  use strong passwords (mix letters, numbers and symbols) and do not share them. not even with friends. be wary of links offered in chat forums or in-game. talk to your children about what is appropriate behaviour.  choose neutral user names. use different login details on different sites. do not reveal personal information, even to those who are being friendly. be sceptical of flashy ads and links to games, cheats, and freebies that offer in-game currencies. check if there is a way to restrict who children play with online. check online privacy settings to see with whom data is being shared. younger gamers are regularly targeted, said mark james of security firm eset and many inadvertently give away their age with the names they choose when they sign up to a site or service. scammers and conmen can lurk in forums offering advice and links to extras, cheats and advice pages that are actually laced with  malware .  "often in-game chat channels play host to predators waiting for that click on a 'bad' link that infects a device," he said. there is evidence that lurking on a gaming service pays off for the bad guys. valve, which runs the massively popular steam gaming service, revealed late last year that 77,000 accounts for the service are being hijacked each month. control of those accounts will be lost via steam's chat system or through booby-trapped links. mr james warned against befriending people on social media just to get "freebies" for games and said parents needed to educate children about safe browsing and gaming and what information was appropriate to share. without this, he said, children can be an easy target. "if they want that mod or add-on they will do almost anything to get it," he said. "unfortunately many young people do not have the perspective to see what long-term damage could be done if they are caught out." statistics from security firm symantec suggest that younger people are getting hit regularly. a report it produced in early 2016 revealed that a quarter of parents have had a child or know someone with a child whose actions compromised the family's online security. jacqueline beauchere, microsoft's chief online safety officer, said scammers go to great lengths to catch children out. "young people are easily enticed to click flashy advertisements, visit unofficial websites of popular celebrities, download so-called 'free' games, and tap 'agree', 'ok', or 'i accept' to quickly get to where and what they want to online," she said. "many of these actions are just notorious pathways to computer-virus es,  spyware  and other  malware ." the scammers went after children, said ms beauchere, because of the cache of valuable loot that one mistake might lead them to. "among criminals, personal and financial data about any and all individuals has become the sought-after 'currency' of the web," she said. cyber-thieves targeted children only to get at this data, she said.  mr boyd from  malware btyes agreed. and, he said, what helped the scammers was the way children typically get online.  "a lot of kids play via their parents tablets, laptops and desktops," he said. "it's quite likely that parents will re-use login details on other accounts. and there's likely to be a payment method attached to it." that is the data they are after, he said. what makes this tougher to police, he said, is that children often know more than their parents about the technology. that competence can fool many parents into thinking their offspring are safer online than they actually are.  "i would be surprised if parents know much about how the technology works," he said. but, he added, staying safe is not impossible. it takes collaboration between parents and children. both need to educate the other about what they do and how to stay safe.  stream or download the latest tech tent episode on the bbc websitelisten to previous episodes on the bbc websitefollow tech tent on twitter will apple's gold-plated reputation with consumers be dented by an embarrassing security foul-up? also on the podcast this week: is bitcoin really using more energy than ireland? and what kind of qualities do you need to succeed as a professional e-sports player? we try to answer those questions on this week's tech tent. for a long time, apple has boasted - with some justification - that it has an excellent record of keeping its devices safe from intruders.  in any case, with pcs having the lion's share of the computer market, hackers and security researchers used to spend little time hunting down vulnerabilities in macs. but on tuesday a turkish software developer tweeted this: "dear @applesupport, we noticed a *huge* security issue at macos high sierra. anyone can login as 'root' with empty password after clicking on login button several times." it sounded unlikely but it was true. what it meant was that anyone who got hold of an apple computer running the latest operating system could get root access to the machine with very little trouble. "root access is a bit like having a master key to the building," prof angela sasse, from university college london, tells tech tent. "it's really bad news."  she explains that it means an intruder could install new software, such as  spyware , on your computer. and she is surprised that this issue was not spotted before high sierra was released. "normally before release you would test that root access is adequately protected." apple moved quickly to release an update to patch this loophole in the operating system's defences. so will it suffer any long-term consequences in terms of a loss of consumer trust? neil mawston, from the tech consultancy strategy analytics, says apple is a very clever company with a great brand.  but he has some concerns: "we're seeing this gradual tick-tock of mis-steps in delivery."  recently, we have seen the delay in the launch of apple's homepod - and another, albeit much more minor, security issue.  "if products are late or they have lots of flaws and that keeps on building up momentum, then that negative press coverage eventually catches up with them." a decade ago a furious steve jobs would have roamed the cupertino campus to find someone to eject from the building for such a serious error. tim cook's style is very much more measured, but do not be surprised if there is some movement in the upper ranks of mac management in the coming months. it has been a dizzying week for anyone who takes an interest in the crypto-currency bitcoin. it started 2017 worth just under $1,000 (£740) but this week it soared past the $10,000 mark. in the days that followed, the volatility we have come to expect from the bitcoin market has become even more pronounced. in the space of three hours, its price dropped by more than $2,000, only to bounce back a few hours later. the debate over whether this is a speculative bubble or the future of money gets hotter by the moment. but so too do concerns over the amount of energy used in the process of mining bitcoin and recording transactions. as banks of computers whir away, many of them in china, the electricity consumed as they solve increasingly complex mathematical problems gets ever greater. according to one study, bitcoin is now using more energy each year than the whole of ireland, and will soon surpass morocco's energy use. this does not sound sustainable, but as long as the value of bitcoin keeps rising, miners will not care about the electricity bills. and meanwhile the incentive to plant software on websites to hijack visitors' computers to help mine bitcoin will only increase. competitive video gaming or e-sports is a rapidly growing business. market research firm newzoo thinks this young industry will make nearly $700m in revenue this year. and it is not all about consoles - mobile gaming is increasingly popular. this weekend, london hosts the clash royale crown world championships, a global tournament entered by more than 27 million players, according to supercell, the finnish creators of the mobile game clash royale. only a few of those will be professional e-sports players. this new breed can earn substantial sums, not only from tournaments but from sponsors, advertisers and from fans who watch them streaming their practice sessions on twitch or youtube and just send them money. so what does it take to make it as one of these new sports stars?  we hear from electr1fy - yes, it is important to have an arresting name - who tells us his youtube channel has added 40,000 subscribers and had generated 40 million views over the last month.  "you need fast instincts  - every delay can cost you the game," he tells us. "and you need to get into your opponent's head." that message is reinforced by the rum ham, a gamescaster - another new profession - providing live commentary on e-sports. he says it is about making good decisions quickly.  "they're making decisions where hundreds of thousands of dollars are on the line in a split second.  these players are doing mental maths, spatial awareness, predicting the outcomes of a combat before the troops are even on the field - all in a three-minute game play." and the prize? well the best players are making more than a million dollars a year. time to put away the crossword, forget about the sudoku and get down to some serious gaming.  a power plant and other industries in southern iran have been targeted by the stuxnet computer worm, an iranian civil defence official says. but the cyber attack has been successfully rebuffed and prevented from spreading, iranian media report. iran's nuclear enrichment efforts were hit hard in 2010 by the stuxnet worm, which was also blamed for problems at industrial plants and factories. tehran accused israel and the us of planting the  malware . provincial civil defence chief ali akbar akhavan said iranian industry was constantly being targeted by "enemy cyber attacks" and companies in hormozgan province had recently been infiltrated, the semi-official isna news agency reported. "the bandar abbas electricity supply company has come under cyber attack," he told a news conference. "but we were able to prevent its expansion owing to our timely measures and the co-operation of skilled hackers." the bandar abbas plant, on iran's southern coast in the strait of hormuz, is said to supply power to neighbouring provinces as well as hormozgan. iran has regularly claimed success in defeating  computer-virus es, such as stuxnet and flame, which have affected its industries. in april, a  malware  attack on iran's oil ministry and national oil company forced the government to disconnect key oil facilities, including the kharg island oil terminal that handles most of tehran's exports. late last year, iran said some of its computer systems were infected by the duqu  spyware  which was believed to have been designed to steal data to help launch further cyber attacks. the attacks have affected its energy exports as well as its controversial uranium enrichment programme, which western countries suspect is aimed at constructing nuclear weapons. tehran insists it is solely for peaceful purposes. the biggest cyber attack so far was from the stuxnet worm, believed to be the first known computer-virus  specifically targeted at infrastructure such as power stations. in 2010, iran accused the west of trying to disrupt its nuclear facilities with the stuxnet worm. researchers estimated that five industrial processing organisations in iran were hit repeatedly between june 2009 and april 2010 by the worm which they believed had been created by a "nation state" in the west. iran said centrifuges used in uranium enrichment had been sabotaged and the un nuclear watchdog said the enrichment programme had been temporarily brought to a halt. reports suggested that the worm had infected the personal computers of staff at iran's first nuclear power station at bushehr. in september this year, israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu told the united nations general assembly that time was running out to stop tehran having enough enriched uranium to build a nuclear bomb. us president barack obama has said the us will do "what we must" to stop iran acquiring nuclear weapons. young people are a growing target for identity theft cases, which have reached record levels in 2016, fraud prevention organisation cifas says.  almost 25,000 victims of fraud were aged under 30, with the number of under-21s defrauded rising by a third. the statistics, from 277 banks and businesses, show almost 173,000 recorded frauds in 2016 - the highest level since records began 13 years ago.  cifas says people must be more vigilant about protecting their personal data. the 172,919 incidents of identity fraud last year represents 53.3% of all fraud recorded by cifas, of which 88% occurred online.    the number of under-21s being defrauded rose from 1,343 in 2015 to 1,803 in 2016. cifas deputy chief executive mike haley said better education around fraud and financial crime was needed.  "with nine out of 10 identity frauds committed online and with all age groups at risk, we are urging everyone to make it more difficult for fraudsters to abuse their identity.  "we all remember to protect our possessions through locking our house or flat or car but we don't take the same care to protect our most important asset - our identities." city of london police commander chris greany, who is national co-ordinator for economic crime, said: "with close to half of all crime now either fraud or cyber crime we all need to make sure we protect our identity. "identity fraud is the key to unlocking your valuables. things like weak passwords or not updating your software are the same as leaving a window or door unlocked." luke croydon: 'it's a very troubling experience' in the last five years, both luke croydon and his partner have been victims of identity theft.  he says many people in the building they live in have been victims, because letterboxes are out on the street so bills are more easily stolen.  the thief then signs up to various credit accounts, and steals the cards when they are delivered.  the first you learn about it is when you see a statement with a sum of money in your name left in your letterbox, he explains. he goes on to describe what he calls "a very troubling experience" and says: "you wonder what else they have done with that personal detail."  if it's only bank accounts, that's one thing but you worry they might have signed up to websites or applied for a passport, he says. it's a mixture of anger for the person who has defrauded you, and fear for whether the bank in question is going to try and call in that debt that you didn't build up, he adds. according to cifas, the vast majority of identity fraud takes place when a fraudster pretends to be an individual, so as to buy a product or take out a loan in their name.  fraudsters get hold of the necessary personal material by stealing mail, computer hacking, obtaining data on the dark web, and exploiting personal information on social media. they can also gather it though social engineering, where people give up personal information to someone pretending to be from their bank, the police or a retailer.  cifas advises people to shred important paper documents - and use passwords, privacy settings and anti-virus software on their computers. limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti- spyware  programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas the mozilla foundation has accused uk software group gamma international of falsely associating one of its products with the firefox name. finfisher is legitimate surveillance software thought to be used by governments to covertly obtain data. it is installed unknowingly by its target computer user, often by disguising itself as an update to a well known programme such as firefox. gamma international has not responded to emailed requests for comment. university of toronto research group the citizen lab said it believed finfisher command and control servers were currently active, or had been present, in 36 countries. in 2011 the bbc found documents in the state security building in egypt, looted during the uprising, which suggested that the hampshire-based firm had offered to supply finfisher to the egyptian  government to monitor activists.  gamma international denied supplying it but the files seen by the bbc described a five month trial which included successful access to email accounts and the recording of  encryption  skype calls. the mozilla foundation has now sent a cease and desist letter, warning gamma international not to use the name of firefox, its open source browser, as camouflage for the program. "our brand and trademarks are used by the  spyware  as a method to avoid detection and deletion," said mozilla chief privacy officer alex fowler in a statement. "as an open source project trusted by hundreds of millions of people around the world, defending mozilla's trademarks from this abuse is vital to our brand, mission and continued success." thousands of documents said to detail the cia's hacking tools were published by wikileaks on tuesday, and many were given peculiar names by their makers. here are five of the strangest. one of the hacking tools that featured in a lot of headlines was the weeping angel that appears to get a samsung smart tv to record conversations. it's named after a character in the sci-fi tv series doctor who, which appears as still as a statue. the name could have been chosen "because you think it is not alive but it is, you think it isn't doing anything but it is" says alan woodward, a security researcher who advises europol and previously advised uk spy agency gchq. the leaks suggest the tv appears to turn itself off and, likewise, the weeping angel can appear to be frozen and come to life when you are not looking. while the uk's mi5 agency is said to have helped build this  spyware , it's possible cia hackers from the us are also doctor who fans.  another hacking tool, which attempts to listen to calls on systems such as skype, is named after the sontarans.  these characters look like potatoes and try to conquer the earth by emitting poisoned gas.  the tool ricky bobby can control a computer remotely without detection using commands in microsoft windows, according to the leak. but it is named after a far more conspicuous character. racing car driver ricky bobby was played by will ferrell in the 2006 film talladega nights: the ballad of ricky bobby. after crashing in a race, he runs round the track wearing only his helmet and underwear insisting he is on fire.  he also manages to get his best friend, cal, to become a car racer. this is not lost on the makers of ricky bobby the hacking tool.  when they made a listening post for rickybobby, they called it cal. one of the leaks suggests hackers love naming their spy tools so much that they come up with names before they've made the tool. starving weasel is from a long list of names for future tools chosen "because they are awesome". "these are mostly oblique references to things i like, tv tropes names that amuse me and situations or phrases at work encoded in toolname-esque obscurity," says the person whose name has been replaced with user #77010.  oblique is an understatement. starving weasel is a reference to a lyric from mid-way through an 11-minute song by weird al yankovic. in the song albuquerque, weird al goes to the doughnuts shop only to be told there are no doughnuts left but there is a "box of one dozen starving, crazed weasels". he buys the weasels and they jump out of their box and start eating his face, at which point he meets the woman of his dreams. this is where the cia hackers may reveal themselves in their geekiest form, because maddening whispers is a reference to the online role-playing game world of warcraft. "it's almost too stereotypical - it's really painting a picture of a hacker who likes pizza, beer, science fiction and online gaming," says mr woodward. the game sees players exploring a vast landscape full of monsters, completing quests and interacting with other gamers. maddening whispers is a spell in the game, which, when you deploy it, slowly weakens your opponent.  as for the tool, it tries to get remote access to a device named vanguard. mr woodward is unsure what this refers to but suggests it could be vanguard alarm systems.  niche on both counts. some hacking tools are named after slightly more obvious signs of aggression: birds of prey.  bald eagle, harpy eagle and sparrowhawk all feature. a bird of prey can swoop on its victim almost silently.  similarly, the sparrowhawk tool can detect the letters you are hitting on a keyboard without you having any idea you are being watched. then there is the less threatening snowy owl, which is described in the leaks as a tool designed to remotely operate a mac computer.  there is a possibility it was not named after the bird at all but instead was inspired by the brownies.  in a brownie troop the snowy owl is an adult who helps the leader of the troop, the brown owl. "maybe we have our first indication that there is a woman involved," speculates mr woodward.  the dutch government has announced plans to give police far greater powers to fight cybercrime.  under a new bill, investigators would be able to hack into computers, install  spyware , read emails and destroy files.  they could also break into servers located abroad, if they were being used to block services.   critics say the proposed measures are unnecessary and could set a dangerous precedent for people living under oppressive governments. use of the powers would be subject to the approval of a judge, the government stresses.  the bill would also make it a crime for a suspect to refuse to decipher  encryption  files during a police investigation. it is expected the draft legislation will be put to parliament by the end of the year. the bill singles out child pornography and terrorism as two areas of special concern. the publication of stolen data would also become punishable. justice minister ivo opstelten is also keen to put an end to so-called  dos-attack  (distributed  dos-attack ) web-attacks, that flood intended targets such as banks with large amounts of traffic, making them unreachable. . simone halink of digital rights group bits of freedom said the law would set a bad precedent and had been "rushed". "what you see is that the police have especially a shortage of knowledge and manpower - not of powers," she said. a dutch citizen was arrested last month on suspicion of mounting one of the biggest ever web attacks. websites of anti-junk mail outfit spamhaus were bombarded with huge amounts of data in an attempt to knock them offline.  web users in iran and syria aiming to circumvent censorship controls are being targeted with  spyware , according to security researchers. a team at the university of toronto
 said installation software for the popular proxy tool simurgh also implanted keylogging  spyware .
         simurgh is designed to anonymise net use and allow access to blocked sites.  however, an added  spyware  is said to send data from victims' pcs to a site registered with a saudi arabian isp. this can include the computer operator's username and machine name, as well as every window clicked and every keystroke entered. the developers of simurgh subsequently posted  
          
 
          a warning on their website
 noting that versions of their software installer downloaded from the file sharing service 4shared had been compromised.
         anti-virus firms sophos and avira have also updated their  malware  scanners to detect the code. morgan marquis-boire, a technical adviser at the university's munk school of global affairs, said the isass.exe file allowed "persistent access to the victim's computer" as well as "data exfiltration" capabilities. "this  spyware  has been specifically crafted to target people attempting to evade government censorship," he added. "if found to be installed on a computer one must consider all online accounts (email, banking etc) to have been compromised and it is advised that all online passwords be changed as soon as possible." he noted that a side effect of the code was a lack of navigation sounds in microsoft's internet explorer and other applications. a follow-up post by sophos noted that although the data was being sent to what appeared to be a saudi arabian registered entity, some of the servers being used were in the united states. sophos stressed that the discovery did not mean that the attack had been instigated by parties in the us, as anyone could have rented the server space. the news comes as investigators probe a  malware  attack - dubbed flame - found to have infected computers in iran and other parts of the middle east, which is thought to have been designed to steal sensitive data. however, sophos suggested that the the simurgh  spyware  was likely to have compromised more computers. "unlike flame, which is highly targeted  malware  that has only been found on a handful of computers globally, this  malware  is targeting users for whom having their communications compromised could result in imprisonment or worse," wrote chester wisniewski, senior security advisor at sophos,  
          
 
          on his company's blog
.
         "many thousands depend on the legitimate simurgh service, which makes it likely that far more people have been impacted by this  malware ." the us national security agency has spied on french diplomats in washington and at the un, according to the latest claims in le monde newspaper. nsa internal memos obtained by le monde detailed the use of a sophisticated surveillance programme, known as genie. us spies allegedly hacked foreign networks, introducing the  spyware  into the software, routers and firewalls of millions of machines. it comes a day after claims the nsa tapped millions of phones in france. the details in the latest le monde article are based on leaks from ex-intelligence analyst edward snowden, through glen greenwald, the outgoing guardian journalist, who is feeding the material from brazil, says the bbc's christian fraser in paris. it comes on the day the us secretary of state, john kerry, is in london meeting foreign counterparts to discuss syria. the le monde report sets out details of genie, an nsa surveillance programme in which  spyware  implants were introduced remotely to overseas computers, including foreign embassies.  it claims bugs were introduced to the french embassy in washington (under a code name "wabash") and to the computers of the french delegation at the un, codenamed "blackfoot". the article suggests that in 2011, the us allocated $652m (£402m) in funding for the programme, which was spent on "spy implants".  tens of millions of computers were reported to have been hacked that year. a document dated august 2010 suggests intelligence stolen from foreign embassy computers ensured the us knew ahead of time the positions of other security council members, before a un vote for a resolution imposing new sanctions on iran.   the us was worried the french were drifting to the brazilian side - who were opposed to implementing sanctions - when in truth they were always aligned to the us position, says our correspondent. the intelligence agency quotes susan rice, then-us ambassador to the un, who praises the work done by the nsa: "it helped me know... the truth, and reveal other [countries'] positions on sanctions, allowing us to keep one step ahead in the negotiations." on monday, le monde alleged that the nsa spied on 70.3 million phone calls in france between 10 december 2012 and 8 january 2013. at a breakfast meeting with the us secretary of state on tuesday, french foreign minister laurent fabius demanded a full explanation.   referring to a telephone call between the french and us presidents, mr fabius told reporters: "i said again to john kerry what francois hollande told barack obama, that this kind of spying conducted on a large scale by the americans on its allies is something that is unacceptable." asked if france was considering reprisals against the us, government spokeswoman najat vallaud-belkacem replied: "it is up to foreign minister fabius to decide what line we take but i don't think there is any need for an escalation. "we have to have a respectful relationship between partners, between allies. our confidence in that has been hit but it is after all a very close, individual relationship that we have." both french officials made their comments before the latest revelations appeared in le monde. mr snowden, a former nsa worker, went public with revelations about us spying operations in june. the information he leaked led to claims of systematic spying by the nsa and cia on a global scale. targets included rivals like china and russia, as well as allies like the eu and brazil. the nsa was also forced to admit it had captured email and phone data from millions of americans. mr snowden is currently in russia, where he was granted a year-long visa after making an asylum application. the us wants him extradited to face trial on criminal charges. seven internet service providers have filed a legal complaint against the uk's intelligence agency gchq. isps from the us, uk, netherlands and south korea have joined forces with campaigners privacy international to take the agency to task over alleged attacks on network infrastructure. it is the first time that gchq has faced such action. the move follows allegations about government snooping made by us whistleblower edward snowden. the isps claim that alleged network attacks, outlined in a series of articles in der spiegel and the intercept, were illegal and "undermine the goodwill the organisations rely on". the allegations that the legal actions are based on include: claims that employees of belgian telecommunications company belgacom were targeted by gchq and infected with  malware  to gain access to network infrastructure gchq and the us national security agency, where mr snowden worked, had a range of network exploitation and intrusion capabilities, including a "man-on-the-side" technique that covertly injects data into existing data streams to create connections that will enable the targeted infection of users the intelligence agencies used an automated system, codenamed turbine, that allowed them to scale up network implants german internet exchange points were targeted, allowing agencies to spy on all internet traffic coming through those nodes while the isps taking the action were not directly named in the leaked snowden documents, privacy international claims that "the type of surveillance being carried out allows them to challenge the practices... because they and their users are at threat of being targeted". privacy international has previously filed two other cases - the first against alleged mass surveillance programmes tempora, prism and upstream, and the second against the deployment by gchq of computer intrusion capabilities and  spyware . eric king, deputy director of privacy international, said "these widespread attacks on providers and collectives undermine the trust we all place on the internet and greatly endangers the world's most powerful tool for democracy and free expression." the isps involved in the action are uk-based greennet, riseup (us), greenhost (netherlands), mango (zimbabwe), jinbonet (south korea), may first/people link (us)and the chaos computer club (germany). cedric knight, of isp greennet, added: "snowden's revelations have exposed gchq's view that independent operators like greennet are legitimate targets for internet surveillance, so we could be unknowingly used to collect data on our users. we say this is unlawful and utterly unacceptable in a democracy." gchq maintains that all its work is conducted "in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate". identity theft is reaching "epidemic levels", according to a fraud prevention group, with people in their 30s the most targeted group. id fraudsters obtain personal information before pretending to be that individual and apply for loans or store cards in their name. a total of 89,000 cases were recorded in the first six months of the year by uk anti-fraud organisation cifas. that is a 5% rise on the same period last year and a new record high. "we have seen identity fraud attempts increase year on year, now reaching epidemic levels, with identities being stolen at a rate of almost 500 a day," said simon dukes, chief executive of cifas. "these frauds are taking place almost exclusively online. the vast amounts of personal data that is available either online or through data breaches is only making it easier for the fraudster." the curious case of leah palmerunmasking the fraudsters id theft accounts for more than half of fraud recorded by cifas, a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies. more than four in five of these crimes were committed online, it said, with many victims unaware that they had been targeted until they received a random bill or realised their credit rating had slumped. this would prevent them getting a loan of their own. fraudsters steal identities by gathering information such as their name and address, date of birth and bank account details. they get hold of such information by stealing mail, hacking computers, trawling social media, tricking people into giving details or buying data through the "dark web". i got a worrying insight into how our online activity can leave us open to identity theft when a security company offered to examine my digital footprint.  its 30-page report showed that a lot of personal details that might be useful to a criminal were out there on public websites - but if you choose to have an online presence, that is quite hard to avoid.   far more worrying was the presence in hidden corners of the web of some of my passwords for various accounts, harvested in some of the many hacking attacks on major online firms.  luckily i had already changed those passwords, but the security researchers told me that anyone in the western world who used the internet reasonably often was likely to have their details held in one of these data dumps. that information is up for sale on a number of criminal marketplaces.  identity theft is big business and it is thriving on the dark web.  victims are more likely to be in their 30s and 40s, often because a good deal of information about them has been gathered online. the stereotypical image of a fraud victim is someone who is elderly and vulnerable, but the over-60s are the only age group that has seen cases fall this year compared with the first half of the year, according to cifas. the age group which has seen the biggest rise is 21 to 30-year-olds. this finding was mirrored in separate research by credit checking company experian. it said that since 2014, it was increasingly likely that victims were male, aged in their 20s and living in london. cifas said it was important that employers needed to be alert to fraud, rather than just consumers. there had been a sharp rise in id fraudsters applying for loans, online retail, telecoms and insurance products, it added. "for smaller and medium-sized businesses in particular, they must focus on educating staff on good cyber-security behaviours and raise awareness of the social engineering techniques employed by fraudsters. relying solely on new fraud prevention technology is not enough," mr dukes said. katy worobec, from uk finance, which represents the banking industry, said: "tackling fraud and financial crime is a top priority for the industry. banks have sophisticated controls in place to safeguard the financial system from fraudsters, and work closely with enforcement agencies and government to identify and disrupt criminal activity." anil sharma found out the hard way that fraudsters had enough information about him to obtain new smartphones in his name. not one but two mobile phone contracts taken out through a well-known high street retailer were posted to his liverpool home.  he says the chain was quite dismissive of his plight and he was forced to contact the mobile networks to resolve the situation. one was more helpful than the other, mr sharma says, but ultimately both accepted that the contracts were taken out fraudulently and cancelled them. as well as taking a good deal of phone bashing to resolve, the identity theft was also stressful - and affected his credit score as well. "it's very very worrying." but how did the fraudsters obtain his details? initially mr sharma thought it was the result of losing his wallet a couple of years ago, but action fraud says an online breach is the more likely culprit.  limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti- spyware  programmes. up to 80% of cyber-threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas online music piracy across the world "declined significantly" in 2012, according to a new report. the npd group said last year the number of users on peer-to-peer (p2p) illegally downloading music fell by 17% - down to 21 million worldwide. the market research firm cited an increased use of legal streaming music sites as being behind the drop. it comes as a separate report noted that global music revenues had risen for the first time since 1999. the international federation of the phonographic industry (ifpi) said that accelerating digital music sales had caused a 0.3% upturn in global revenues - a total of $16.5bn (£10.9bn). a small boost, but it is the first year of growth for well over a decade. "it is hard to remember a year for the recording industry that has begun with such a palpable buzz in the air," said frances moore, chief executive of ifpi. "these are hard-won successes for an industry that has innovated, battled and transformed itself over a decade.  "they show how the music industry has adapted to the internet world, learned how to meet the needs of consumers and monetised the digital marketplace." the npd group's report, based on its annual study of music consumers, said that at p2p file sharing's peak, in 2005, as many as 33 million people used the services - one in five of all internet users aged 13 and older. but in 2012 that number was measured as being down to 21 million people. the report said as many as 40% of people who used illegal music services in 2011 stopped doing so in 2012. of those, 20% said this was due to the fact the illegal service they were using had been shut down, or had contained  spyware  and computer-virus es. more than half the users who stopped using illegal sites said they now preferred legal services such as the uk-headquartered spotify. the music industry has undertaken a sizable campaign over several years to see illegal sites and services put out of business. in the uk, the british phonographic industry (bpi) took action to the courts, obtaining a court order to force internet service providers to block access to file-sharing site the pirate bay. the pirate party uk - a political group that campaigns for an "open" internet - launched a proxy service to allow uk users to circumvent the block of the pirate bay, but that too was closed following legal threats from the bpi. "in recent years, we've seen less p2p activity, because the music industry has successfully used litigation to shut down [p2p client] limewire and other services," said russ crupnick, senior vice president of npd.  "many of those who continued to use p2p services reported poor experiences, due to rampant  spyware  and computer-virus es on illegal p2p sites." despite the seemingly good news, controversial measures to curb piracy further are still taking place. on tuesday, the "six strikes" campaign - where users engaging in piracy are given six warnings before action is taken - came into force in the us. the music industry has also started to refocus its efforts by targeting those who make profiting from illegal music possible, such as advertisers, as well as the piracy sites themselves. elsewhere, search engines like google have been pressured to demote piracy websites in their search results. more needs to be done on that front, ifpi said: "searches for the names of popular artists followed by the term "mp3" still return a large number of results for illegal sources on the first page.  "in august 2012, google announced it would take into account the number of valid copyright notices it receives when returning search results.  "that was a welcome step in principle but unfortunately has not been translated into results." skype, the internet communications platform, is being used by hackers to distribute a "worm" that infects windows pcs. when users click on an instant message saying "lol is this your new profile pic?" they unwittingly download a file containing a  spyware  horse  malware  file. this opens a backdoor allowing hackers to hijack infected pcs and recruit them into a " malicious-bot  army". users can be locked out of their machines and held to ransom.  according to internet security specialist sophos, the worm is a variant of the well-known "dorkbot" worm which has been spread by social media platforms such as facebook and twitter. when the worm infects a computer it sends out the "lol" message to the user's contact list. unsuspecting recipients think the message has originated from someone they know and click on the link, thereby downloading the  malware  payload. skype said in a statement: "skype takes the user experience very seriously, particularly when it comes to security. we are aware of this malicious activity and are working quickly to mitigate its impact.  "we strongly recommend upgrading to the newest skype version and applying updated security features on your computer.  "additionally, following links - even when from your contacts - that look strange or are unexpected is not advisable."  malicious-bot s are often used to mount distributed  dos-attack  ( dos-attack ) attacks - forcing websites offline - to run  spyware  or to send out spam emails. publicity about the threat has made many users wary of clicking on strange-looking links posted via social networks, which may have prompted the perpetrators of this latest attack to switch tactics. "the danger is, of course, that skype users may be less in the habit of being suspicious about links sent to them than, say, facebook users," said sophos's senior technology consultant graham cluley. rip internet explorer. microsoft is phasing out the web browser, in name at least, apparently to shake off negative connotations. instead it wants a fresh start for the new browser being baked into windows 10, codenamed project spartan. microsoft is still deciding on a name, according to the verge. losing ie will feel for many like the end of an era. early windows users first got to know internet explorer 1.0 in august 1995. over the next 20 years, 11 versions were released.  at the peak of its popularity, internet explorer dominated the web.  it was responsible for 95% of all website visits. love it or loathe it, the iconic blue "e" was part of our lives. back in those days when instead of googling things, people asked jeeves… all computer images looked like pixelated clipart... users got to know its quirks, accepting its bugs as simply a part of life...  then in 2004, mozilla firefox came along.  it brought along customization, private browsing and extensions. in browsing terms, it was a mover and shaker.  ...especially as ie began to be plagued by serious security concerns.  spyware ,  spyware  and  computer-virus es used vulnerabilities in the way ie was set up to install itself on users' computers. there was a security scandal in 2006 when it was discovered it was possible for rogue websites to steal information or take control of users' computers.  in 2008, the us computer emergency readiness team (cert) recommended turning off the activex controls inside ie because of security concerns.  in august 2014, cert told users to ditch ie entirely until it was patched.  not good. by then, chrome was on the scene. it arrived in 2008, lightweight and speedy with countless extensions and 'apps' (often just websites) available from the chrome store. it quickly powered its way to dominance - it now has 51% usage share worldwide, according to statcounter.  what you might not know is chrome almost didn't happen because google's boss, eric schmidt, didn't want to go through "bruising browser wars" and google was a comparatively small company at the time. as chrome grew in popularity, ie appeared to be entering its twilight years, at least reputation-wise. these memes sum up the issues users complained about most. such was its reputation that a story which suggested that users of internet explorer have a lower iq than people who chose other browsers was picked up by news organisations worldwide, including the bbc. it turned out to be a hoax.  even ie developers knew they had a problem. in a reddit ama (ask me anything) in august, they hoped "sincerely" they could change the reputation of ie.  despite its reputation lots of people do still use internet explorer. it comes second or third in most usage share estimates. in fact it is so widely used that some people think microsoft isn't getting rid of internet explorer entirely, because it would hurt the way some organisations operate.  so maybe internet explorer is not dead after all, just retiring.  follow @bbcnewsbeat on twitter, bbcnewsbeat on instagram and radio1newsbeat on youtube almost a third of women aged between 16 and 24 say they've been in a controlling relationship. that's according to avon and women's aid, who talked to 2,000 people. the study also suggests that many women don't realise they're in a coercive relationship until they break up. a new law was introduced in december which means domestic abusers who control victims via social media or spy on them online could face up to five years in prison. the legislation, brought into force in england and wales, targets people who put their partners or family members through psychological and emotional torment but stop short of violence. stats from the study suggest 21% of women only knew they'd been in a controlling relationship after it had ended and 9% when friends and family pointed it out. the survey also revealed that... • 1 in 20 women say being scared of their partner is normal and acceptable. • 10% of women regard their partner repeatedly checking their phone as a normal and acceptable part of a relationship.  • 5% of women regard being told what they can and cannot wear as normal and acceptable. chlo, who's 18 and from brixton, south london, was a victim of domestic violence. she says she was too young to realise that she'd been in a controlling relationship. "my ex was my first boyfriend, and i think it's often the case that young people don't have the experience of healthy relationships to know that what's happening isn't normal.  "it's so easy just to think 'all couples argue', especially when someone is telling you that you provoked them all the time.  "and once they start wearing down your self-esteem and isolating you, it spirals to a point that you can't see a way out." in 2014, newsbeat talked to mark kirkpatrick. his former girlfriend, gemma hollings, almost killed him after a row in may that year. "she was alright in the first few weeks," he said.  "i thought it was a passing thing when she became controlling. "she started telling me not to wear shorts. she wouldn't let me have my hair shaved even though that's how it was when she first met me. "it got violent after a few weeks of living at hers. she pushed me, tried strangling me." * isolating a person from their friends and family * depriving them of their basic needs * monitoring their time * monitoring a person via online communication tools or using  spyware  * taking control over aspects of their everyday life, such as where they can go, who they can see, what to wear and when they can sleep * depriving them of access to support services, such as specialist support or medical services * repeatedly putting them down such as telling them they are worthless * enforcing rules and activity which humiliate, degrade or dehumanise the victim * forcing the victim to take part in criminal activity such as shoplifting, neglect or abuse of children to encourage self-blame and prevent disclosure to authorities * financial abuse including control of finances * threats to hurt or kill * threats to a child * threats to reveal or publish private information (e.g. threatening to 'out' someone) * assault * criminal damage (such as destroying household goods) * rape * preventing a person from having access to transport or from working the survey is part of women's aid and avon's love don't feel bad campaign. there are also links to advice and help on the bbc advice pages or call women's aid on call 0808 2000 247.  for more stories like this one you can now download the bbc newsbeat app straight to your device. for ios go here. for android go here israel has destroyed three spying devices discovered in southern lebanon, the lebanese army has said. the "booby-trapped wire-tapping devices" found in the villages of zrariye and rzay, north of the litani river, were bombed on monday, it added. the devices had earlier been found by members of the military wing of the shia islamist movement, hezbollah. israel has not commented. lebanon has accused its neighbour in the past of planting similar spying devices. lebanon has been in a state of war with israel since 1973, while hezbollah fought a 34-day war with israel in 2006 that left some 1,200 lebanese and 160 israelis dead. on monday, hezbollah's al-manar television reported that the "zionist spying devices" had tapped into the group's private wired telecommunications network. "the detection came within the framework of an ongoing  spyware  detection [operation]," a hezbollah statement said.  "subsequently, the enemy detonated the device remotely, but no-one was hurt due to the high level of alert and caution of the resistance technicians." al-manar said one of the spying devices contained more than 20 boxes and batteries. the device was found on a hill near the border and was linked via an 80m cable to transmission equipment pointing towards israeli military posts, it added. hezbollah said israel's "persistent attacks" on its telecommunications network constituted a violation of lebanese sovereignty and threatened the safety and security of the lebanese people. the lebanese army later confirmed that there had been three blasts in zrariye and rzay at 17:15 local time (14:15 gmt) on monday. "a military expert went to the area and it turned out that the explosions resulted from the bombardment by the israeli enemy of three booby-trapped wire-tapping devices. an investigation is under way to uncover the circumstances of the incident." there were similar incidents involving alleged israeli spying devices in december 2011 and february 2012. israel did not comment at the time. in december 2016 diep saeeda, an outspoken human rights activist from the pakistani city of lahore, received a short message on facebook from someone she didn't know but with whom she had a number of friends in common: "hy dear." she didn't think much of it and never got round to replying. but the messages weren't coming from a fan of mrs saeeda's activism - instead they were the start of a sustained campaign of digital attacks attempting to install  malware  on her computer and mobile phone to spy on her and steal her data.  over the next year, she received multiple messages from the same facebook account, apparently run by a young woman calling herself sana halimi, claiming to work for the united nations.  glossary:  malware , patches and wormspakistan: where reporters face beatings, threats and death however, the attackers targeting mrs saeeda made crucial mistakes that allowed researchers from human rights group amnesty international to trace a number of individuals linked either to the operation or to the  malware  used.  they include a british-pakistani cyber security expert running a company he claims to be based in wales, and another who used to work for the pakistani army's public relations wing.  mrs saeeda is clear whom she believes is ultimately responsible for the attacks: "i'm convinced these are intelligence agencies... they try to harass people and force them to leave the country."  she says in the past they targeted her for promoting dialogue between ordinary pakistanis and indians.  "there was a time they would visit my home or office on a daily basis. when i get up in the morning, there would be two people outside my home."  but she says the  malware  attacks were more invasive than anything she had previously experienced.  amnesty international has spoken to three other pakistan human rights activists who have been targeted in the same way. they discovered that the main piece of  malware  being used had also been used in previously documented attacks on indian military and diplomatic officials.  amnesty international say they have no evidence of pakistani state involvement and are unable to say who is ultimately responsible for conducting the attacks. sherif elsayed-ali, director of global issues at amnesty, told the bbc they were calling on the pakistani authorities to investigate the attacks "as a matter of urgency… and to ensure that human rights defenders are adequately protected both online and offline".  human rights groups have repeatedly warned that the pakistani intelligence services appear to be cracking down on activists who criticize them.  in january 2017, a group of bloggers went missing for a number of weeks before being released. two subsequently told the bbc that they had been detained by the security services and tortured.  a year after first establishing contact with mrs saeeda, "sana halimi" sent her the first messages with  malware  attached.  mrs saeeda was at the time in a state of panic. one of her closest friends, fellow activist raza khan, had disappeared. the 40-year-old, who worked on promoting better relations between pakistan and india, had been attending a talk on extremism on 2 december 2017. he hasn't been seen since leaving the event. the next day, friends found his door locked and light on - his computer missing. they believe he was taken into custody by the intelligence services.  activist says pakistan tortured himpakistani blogger says he was tortured  a few days after mr khan's disappearance, as mrs saeeda was becoming increasingly vocal in the media, she received her first  malware  attack. "sana halimi" sent her a fake facebook login page via facebook messenger. had she clicked on it, the site would've recorded her facebook password.  she didn't though and a few weeks later received another  malware  attack, again from "sana halimi." this time the message contained a link - apparently to a set of new's year's eve-themed photo filters.  in fact, it was  malware  designed to hack into her mobile phone and intercept text messages.  again, mrs saeeda didn't click on the link. the attackers changed tactics.  "sana halimi" messaged mrs saeeda, telling her she needed to talk to her privately about the disappearance of her friend mr khan.  mrs saeeda, desperate for anything that could help locate mr khan, became suddenly interested.  the messages continued for over two weeks and culminated in a message from "sana halimi" purportedly containing an attached document that would help her "understand" what had happened to mr khan.   mrs saeeda attempted to download it but it was blocked by her computer's antivirus software. the document appeared to be another piece of  malware .  over the subsequent weeks and months, mrs saeeda was repeatedly targeted in further attacks, this time over email. one email she received claimed to be from the office of the chief minister of punjab, the province she lived in. it said the chief minister would be visiting her office to discuss the case of her still missing friend mr khan. by this time though, mrs saeeda was aware she was being targeted and forwarded the emails to amnesty international instead of downloading the files.  they discovered mrs saeeda had been sent at least two different pieces of  malware , one by facebook, and one by email.  the  malware  attached to the email could, amongst other things, "log passwords, take pictures from the webcam, activate and record audio from the microphone, steal files from the hard disk". they identified this  malware  as a software called crimson.  crimson attacks have been documented before. a number of cyber security firms wrote about the  malware  in march 2016 after discovering it was being used to target indian military and diplomatic figures.    claudio guarnieri, from amnesty, told the bbc the crimson  malware  used to target mrs saeeda was "almost identical" to that used in the past.   an independent cyber security firm told the bbc it was "highly confident" the attacks documented by amnesty had been carried out by the same group behind the attacks on indian targets.  amnesty was able to use the  malware  they examined to identify some of those associated with creating it.  they discovered the  malware  linked to the new year's eve photo filters that "sana halimi" had sent to mrs saeeda via facebook would send any stolen data to a server registered in lahore. the owner of the server was a man called faisal hanif whose email address and phone number were listed in the server details.  these linked to a facebook profile revealing that mr hanif owned a company called super innovative. on its website, super innovative advertises digital spy services, which allow you to monitor calls, text messages and emails of your "children, company employees or loved ones" whilst remaining "unnoticeable".  the company website claims to be based in penarth, wales.  when the bbc visited the property, a woman living at the address admitted knowing mr hanif and told the bbc he did occasionally visit from pakistan. but she said she knew nothing about the company super innovative.  mr guarnieri says there is no evidence mr hanif or super innovative were involved in sending the  malware  to mrs saeeda but his research connects mr hanif to the creation of the  malware  used to target her.  "what we believe is that they were the ones tasked to create these tools, but not necessarily the ones that used it." when contacted by the bbc, mr hanif denied involvement in the attacks on mrs saeeda.  he said he believed he had been hacked - and his details falsely used to register the server linked to the  malware . he denied having created any  spyware  that could be used to steal mobile phone data. shortly after the bbc contacted mr hanif, the server linked to the attacks was taken down.  in researching the creators of a previous version of the crimson  malware , the amnesty team came across a massive lapse in security by those linked to it. a folder containing as yet unreleased copies of the  malware  was left publicly accessible. mr guarnieri told the bbc it was a "pretty common mistake" for those working in the field to make.   as well as copies of the  malware  they found a word document that appeared to be an outline of an online team dedicated to targeting perceived opponents of the pakistani army.  the document states that part of their role consists of checking different websites "to see if there are any anti-army content on it, so we try to take them down or at least trace the administrators… we are working on different target accounts to trace their ip addresses or to compromise their accounts."  by establishing the email address associated with the metadata of the document, amnesty researchers traced it to an islamabad-based cyber security expert, zahid abbasi.  when confronted by the bbc, mr abbasi confirmed he had previously worked for a year for the pakistani military's public relations team (ispr) and that the document was genuine.  he admitted his role included tracing the ip addresses of "people abusing institutions" online and "compromising their accounts" by, for example, sending them fake facebook login pages.  however, he denied that human rights activists were amongst those targeted or that he had any connection to the crimson  malware .  there is no evidence that mr abbasi was involved in the attacks on mrs saeeda.  there was no immediate response to the bbc's request for comment from the pakistani army. mrs saeeda told the bbc: "after these attacks i feel insecure - even my own children sending me an email, i'm scared someone is using their name. i don't open emails with attachments."  she added tearfully, "the people who are doing it are spending their resources and their energy on a person who has given 25 years in [peace] activism." the bbc's weekly the boss series profiles different business leaders from around the world. this week we speak to luis von ahn, co-founder and chief executive of language learning app duolingo. if anyone ever doubts the positive impact of immigration tell them about luis von ahn. a 41-year-old from the central american nation of guatemala, he went to the us in 1996, aged 18, to do a maths degree at duke university in north carolina. after that he studied computer science at carnegie mellon university in pittsburgh. luis went on to become a computer science professor, specialising in "human-based computation", which in very simple terms is how humans and computers can best work together to solve complicated tasks. for his pioneering work in that field he was awarded the us's prestigious macarthur fellows program award. this is colloquially known as the "genius grant", because you are said to have to be one to get it. luis then became a multimillionaire by his early 30s, after selling not one but two businesses to google. the technology he sold to the search engine giant is still used by all of us, as will be explained later. fast forward to today, and luis is the co-founder and boss of pittsburgh-based duolingo, the world's most popular language-learning app, which has more than 300 million users around the globe.  soft-spoken and bespectacled, luis modestly says that the much of his success is down to the fact that he was lucky enough to be taught english as a child. a native spanish speaker, he says that his doctor mother insisted that he learned english from a very young age. his middle class family then had enough money to send him to a private english language school in the capital guatemala city.  luis says this obviously put him in a very privileged position compared to most guatemalans - almost half of the country's population live in poverty, according to the world bank, with 9% in extreme poverty. many have limited access to education. the inspiration behind duolingo was to create a language learning app that was free for people to use - be it in guatemala, or around the world - so that they could gain the economic advantages that often come with being at least partially bilingual. "i wanted to do something that would give equal access to education to everyone," says luis. "and then i focused on languages because growing up in guatemala i saw that everyone wants to learn english. "and knowledge of english in a non-english speaking country can usually mean that your income potential is doubled. i mean, you literally make twice as much money if you know english. so that's kind of where the idea came from to have a free way to learn languages, and that was duolingo." luis and co-founder severin hacker started work on the app in 2009. at the time luis was a professor at carnegie mellon, and severin was one of his students. bringing on board linguistics and language retention experts, duolingo launched in 2012, initially offering a handful of languages, including english, french and spanish. "when we launched i was lucky enough to be able to give a ted talk that was watched by two million people, so that gave duolingo a good initial base of users," says luis. "but from then until 2019 our growth was solely due to positive word of mouth, we didn't do any advertising or marketing at all." today duolingo offers more than 100 courses across 28 different languages. while the most popular languages are english, spanish and french, you can study everything from arabic to ukrainian. duolingo also has a special focus on promoting minority languages, with courses in welsh, navajo, gaelic and hawaiian. dr sylvia warnecke, a senior lecturer in languages at the open university in scotland, says that she was very pleased to see duolingo work with leading gaelic speakers to launch that course last year. "duolingo gets criticism from some that you cannot learn enough to be come proficient in a language... but it is a wonderful way of getting people started," she says. "for lots of people learning a language is a slog, and they don't have the time to sign to sign up for formal classes on a weekly basis. apps like duolingo are a valuable alternative." duolingo now has annual revenues of $90m (£69m). some $15m of this comes from the adverts included on the free, standard app, while $75m is from the 2% of users who pay for the advertisement-free premium version. "if you use duolingo heavily and you are relatively wealthy then you should pay us, that is my sense," says luis. "but if you are in a developing country and don't have very much money, then the free version is for you. that's how i feel about it." now with 200 employees, luis hopes that duolingo can float on the stock market in 2021. he is said to have a substantial, but minority stake in the business, which already has some outside investors. more the boss features: dan aykroyd: from battling spirits to selling themthe billionaire retailer whose shops had no stockthe entrepreneur stopping food waste'fashion industry's pollution made me cry' going back in time, the two businesses luis sold to google were the esp game and recaptcha. esp, which stands for extra sensory perception, was an online game in which two people, who could not communicate with each other, had to pick words to describe a photograph. when they used the same word they each got a point, and were presented with another photo. since 2006 google has used this technology to improve its image search software. meanwhile, recaptcha is the now widely used system whereby a google-linked website asks you to type out words that are written in squiggly handwriting as a means of proving that you are not a so-called "bot" or  malware . an estimated 200 million people have to do this every day, and luis invented it. recaptcha, which was solely owned by luis, was bought by google in 2009 for an undisclosed eight-figure sum. what is little known is that the words you have to write out are not chosen at random. instead they are words from old physical books that google is digitising, and its software is struggling to decipher. so every time you do one of those security tests you are an unpaid google worker. if, say, 10,000 people all agree on a certain spelling, then google accepts that as correct. back at duolingo, luis says he is proud to be helping so many people learn a new language. "we are giving free language education to everyone," he says. people calling caitlyn jenner "he" are being "politely corrected" by a malicious-bot on twitter. the automated service is called @she_not_he and targets people who have used the male pronoun in tweets talking about the reality tv star. some of those who are using "he" are making genuine mistakes, while others are more malicious. the malicious-bot itself has made some errors, automatically sending a correction, even when the original tweet is right. she not he tweeted: ".@letitgo_space *alarm sounds* it's she, not he." "i am a malicious-bot politely correcting twitter users who misgender caitlyn jenner in their tweets. i might make mistakes reading your tweet!! i'm only human. (not)," reads the bot's biography. it seems to be when the name jenner is mentioned along with the word "he", meaning that tweets sent about caitlyn's daughters kylie and kendall are also getting targeted. she not he tweeted: ".@glibthwack ~robot clanking noise~ it's she, not he." so far more than 880 people have been corrected. after gaining more than a million followers in four hours, caitlyn broke a new twitter record, guinness world records has confirmed. caitlyn launched her twitter account at the same time as a vanity fair magazine cover was released, showing her as a transgender woman and revealing the name she will now be using. she tweeted: "another jenner world record, and at 65? who'da thought! humbled & honored to have reached 1m followers in 4 hrs. thank you for your support." she'd previously been known as bruce jenner. the cover photograph, exclusively shot by annie leibovitz, is part of a wider special where jenner talks about her gender transition and how her family's reacted. kim kardashian tweeted: "caitlyn jenner for vanity fair annie leibovitz! how beautiful! be happy, be proud, live life your way!" her step-daughters, best known for their reality tv show keeping up with the kardashians, have shared their support for jenner on social media. if you want help or advice on gender dysphoria, being transgender or transitioning, visit bbc advice. follow @bbcnewsbeat on twitter, bbcnewsbeat on instagram, radio1newsbeat on youtube and you can now follow bbc_newsbeat on snapchat  twitter co-founder jack dorsey has again admitted there is much work to do to improve twitter and cut down on the amount of abuse and misinformation on the platform. he said the firm might demote likes and follows, adding that in hindsight he would not have designed the platform to highlight these. he said that twitter currently incentivised people "to post outrage". instead he said it should invite people to unite around topics and communities. "it may be best if it becomes an interest-based network," he told ted curators chris anderson and whitney pennington rodgers. rather than focus on following individual accounts, users could be encouraged to follow hashtags, trends and communities. doing so would require a systematic change that represented a "huge shift" for twitter. on the topic of abuse, he admitted that it was happening "at scale". "we've seen harassment, manipulation, misinformation which are dynamics we did not expect 13 years ago when we founded the company," he told ted curator chris anderson. "what worries me is how we address them in a systematic way." he has previously discussed the role played by likes and follows, which were designed to be prominent. "one of the choices we made was to make the number of people that follow you big and bold. if i started twitter now i would not emphasise follows and i would not create likes. "we have to look at how we display follows and likes," he added. ms pennington rodgers asked him why, according to amnesty, women of colour on average received abuse in one of 10 tweets they posted. "it's a pretty terrible situation," mr dorsey admitted. "the dynamics of the system makes it super-easy to harass others." he said that twitter was increasingly using machine-learning to spot abuse and claimed that 38% of abusive tweets were now identified by algorithms and then highlighted to humans, who decide whether to remove them from the platform. he also said that the firm was working on making it easier to find its policies on abuse and was simplifying them. asked if he would show urgency in dealing with the issues, he replied simply: "yes." the ted audience were invited to contribute to the conversation via the hashtag #askjackatted, which received more than 1,000 questions within 10 minutes of the talk starting. one of the questions came from journalist carole cadwalladr who spoke at ted on monday and called on the tech firms, including twitter, to directly address the issue of misinformation being shared widely on their platforms. but in her question to mr dorsey, she turned her attention to abuse she has received on twitter. "i'd like to know why a video that showed me being beaten up and threatened with a gun to soundtrack of russian anthem stayed up for 72 hours despite 1000s of complaints?" she wrote. mr dorsey did not address that question and neither did he answer another one about how to deal with the huge number of  malicious-bot s posting misinformation. he was also shown a graph created by zignal labs which showed the number of human tweets versus tweets from suspected malicious-bot  talking about topics in the recent election campaign in israel. malicious-bot  seemed to dominate when it came to tweets about contender benny gantz, who was narrowly defeated by benjamin netanyahu.  mr dorsey was asked about this but did not answer. instead he said that the company was in the middle of measuring the "conversational health" of the platform, using a number of metrics, including how toxic conversations were and how much people are exposed to a variety of opinions. "we have to create a healthy contribution to the network and a healthy conversation. on twitter right now you don't necessarily walk away feeling you learned something." the hashtag #twitterlockout has trended after an apparent purge of suspected  malicious-bot s on the social network. dozens of users report having had their accounts suspended until they provided a telephone number which they then had to verify, to prove they were real. some members have raised concerns about their amount of lost followers, and claimed discrimination against right-wing political beliefs. others have in turn mocked allegations of bias. "twitter's tools are apolitical, and we enforce our rules without political bias," the social network has said in response. "every day we proactively look for suspicious account behaviours that indicate inorganic or automated activity, violations of our policies around having multiple accounts, or abuse.  "and every day we take action on any accounts we find that violate our terms of service, including by asking account owners to confirm a phone number so we can confirm a human is behind it.  "this is part of our ongoing, comprehensive efforts to make twitter safer and healthier for everyone." the firm allows automated software to be used to send tweets under some circumstances, but forbids the posted content from being misleading. it has also issued new guidance about the use of automation and having multiple accounts. the action follows an indictment announced last week by special counsel robert mueller against 13 russian nationals and three russian firms. they are alleged to have used fake accounts on twitter and other social media platforms to conduct "information warfare against the united states". twitter and facebook had faced criticism from us lawmakers earlier in the year for not having taken the problem seriously enough. one researcher who has studied digital disinformation campaigns said a twitter crackdown should come as no surprise. "this is a company that's under a lot of heat to clean up its act in terms of how its platform has been exploited to spread misinformation and junk news," said samantha bradshaw from the university of oxford's computational propaganda project. "it now needs to rebuild trust with users and legislators to show it is trying to take action against these threats against democracy." facebook ads boss in fake news twitter stormfacebook to seek verification by post for election adsrussian tumblr trolls pose as black activistssocial media images shown as evidence of 'russian trolls' the effort has nonetheless infuriated some twitter members, including several conservative radio show hosts. others, however, think it ridiculous to protest against twitter trying to prevent further misuse of its service. there have also been pleas for twitter to provide more detail about its efforts. ms bradshaw suggested that any appearance of twitter's partisanship might be better explained by the different news sources that left and right-wingers prefer. "our work indicates a lot of the more conservative americans were consuming more junk news," she explained. "filter bubbles and echo chambers are more dominant on the right compared to on the left. "so, i don't necessarily think it's an attack on the right, it's just a reflection about the different ways different kinds of people consume information." is the battle against online propaganda already being lost as ai puts powerful new weapons in the hands of the fake news merchants?  tech tent reports this week on the desperate efforts by the social media giants to root out the armies of malicious-bot  trying to pollute online debate. stream or download the latest tech tent podcastlisten live every friday at 15.00 gmt on the bbc world service following the mass shooting at a florida school, conspiracy theorists and other trolls harassing some of the survivors were spreading stories that those who spoke out for gun control were actors.  the twitter safety account highlighted action the company was taking, and also revealed that it was using what it called anti-spam and anti-abuse tools, to weed out "malicious automation" - malicious-bot  that retweet abusive messages thousands of times, amplifying their impact.  in other words, both the social media firm and the troll army it is fighting are deploying what you might describe as autonomous weapons made possible by advances in machine learning. twitter has also been rooting out malicious-bot  apparently linked to russia, following the indictment of 13 russians believed to have created fake accounts to conduct information warfare against the us. that means that one of the scenarios described in a report on potential malicious use of artificial intelligence published this week has already come true. one of the global experts behind the report, haydn belfield from cambridge university's centre for the study of existential risk, tells us that what he calls "ai-enabled interference" in the democratic process is one of their major concerns. "what we're particularly worried about is undermining institutions of democracy, undermining what enables us to trust our fellow citizens and know what's happening in the world." advances in machine learning, coupled with software which makes it easy to produce fake speech and video are putting new tools in the hands of those with malicious purposes. "it's very cheap and very easy to pump this stuff out and it really undermines the ability to continue a functioning democratic conversation in society." but do the malicious-bot armies which twitter is battling really amount to an example of artificial intelligence - however widely defined - and are they really as potent a threat as has been claimed? samantha bradshaw, a researcher from the computational propaganda project at the oxford internet institute, is rather more sceptical. she tells us that twitter is finding it quite easy to spot automation and the malicious-bot creators are taking notice. "we're seeing a lot of malicious-bot developers taking a step back from automation, and instead blending automation with human curation," she said. that means they will post new comments, along with the automated retweets, to show that a "real person" is behind the account. while the spotlight has been on russia when it comes to this wave of computational propaganda and other types of cyber-warfare, one expert tells us we should be more worried about north korea. dmitri alperovitch is the russian-born us cyber-security entrepreneur who founded crowdstrike, the company which first identified russian involvement in the hacking of america's democratic party. but he tells us that north korea has spent 15 years building cyber-warfare capabilities, including "breaking into financial institutions and stealing hundreds of millions of dollars," and hacking sony pictures after it made a jokey film about the regime. what seems extraordinary is that a country that is so impoverished and so closed off from the outside world should be able to pose a serious cyber-warfare threat to  the united states, the world's technology superpower. "anyone who can build a nuclear weapon can certainly do cyber," said mr alperovitch, explaining this is a kind of asymmetric warfare, where attack is easier than defence. cyber-warfare techniques and artificial intelligence have advanced a long way in recent years. linking the two fields could bring new threats to our security that we cannot imagine today. stream or download the latest tech tent podcast   a russian man in the us has pleaded guilty to plotting to extort money from the electric car company tesla. egor igorevich kriuchkov is accused of offering an employee $1m (£721,000) to place  ransomware  in the computer network of the company's battery plant in nevada. he planned to use the  ransomware  to steal company secrets for extortion, prosecutors alleged. the 27-year-old pleaded guilty on thursday in reno, nevada. mr kriuchkov acted on behalf of criminals abroad and tried to bribe a tesla employee in person, prosecutors said.  ransomware  attacks companies or organisations by scrambling their internal computer networks, stealing information or locking users out. the attackers then demand large sums of money in return for ending the hack. what is  ransomware ?the teenager getting rich through hackingelon musk loses world's richest title as tesla falters the fbi said the planned attack on tesla was stopped before it could take place.  mr kriuchkov told a court in september that the russian government was aware of the planned hack, but the fbi and lawyers have not alleged that there were ties to the kremlin.  "the swift response of the company and the fbi prevented a major exfiltration of the victim company's data and stopped the extortion scheme at its inception," acting assistant attorney general nicholas mcquaid said in a statement.  mr kruichokov was in the us for five weeks on a tourist visa in july and august last year when he tried to recruit the tesla employee, according to court documents reported in us media. he was quoted as saying that he and his co-conspirators would steal the data, and if tesla refused to pay the ransom the company's secrets would be placed on the internet. the us department of justice said that he took the employee out for drinks multiple times and gave him a phone. after the employee told tesla about the plan, the company contacted the fbi who instructed the employee to record their conversations with mr kruichokov. mr kruichokov faces up to ten months in prison after signing a deal with prosecutors to plead guilty, according to technology website the record. there's more coverage in sunday's newspapers of the fallout from dominic cumming's claims about the conduct of the prime minister. the mail on sunday says downing street has launched a counter-attack against the former chief adviser, claiming his allies within number 10 were responsible for what the paper calls "nasty and sexist briefings" against boris johnson's fiancee carrie symonds. it also claims mr cummings is planning to accuse the pm of being so determined to resist a second lockdown last year that he would have tolerated a large number of deaths.  the sunday telegraph reports the government is growing increasingly worried by what information the former aide may reveal if he hands over a dossier of documents to a parliamentary committee. it quotes a westminster insider, who claims the disclosure may also damage chancellor rishi sunak by revealing his strong opposition to covid restrictions being reintroduced.   the front page of the daily star features a cheeky offer to mr cummings, saying they'll pay him £1.25 to tell them everything he knows. the observer's leader says that the plausibility of mr cummings' claims demonstrate how "dishonourable the prime minister has already revealed himself to be", with the paper's chief political commentator andrew rawnsley predicting that the ongoing questions over the integrity of ministers will eventually prompt "a day of reckoning" at the ballot box. in the sunday express, political commentator patrick o'flynn says the public are unlikely to turn on mr johnson when his willingness to break rules and govern in an unconventional manner is a major reason why many voted for him in 2019. sign up for a morning briefing direct to your inbox the new head of mi6 - richard moore - has told the sunday times that he's taken inspiration from the james bond movies by officially renaming the head of the secret service's technical department as q. mr moore has also revealed that he is attempting to recruit somebody to the the position from outside the organisation for the first time to help to develop partnerships with the private sector to aid the development of new gadgets for spies. hollywood security teams will be switching their focus from gatecrashers to hackers ahead of the oscars tonight, according to the sunday telegraph.   it reports that the lavish post-ceremony celebrity parties will still be hosted online this year due to the pandemic, with organisers hiring cyber security experts to act as "digital bouncers" to protect those attending from  ransomware  attacks.  the paper says tickets to the star studded private events are being sold for hundreds of thousands of pounds, with guests having extravagant gift bags and catering delivered to their homes. movie mixtapes: a playlist of the best chilled out tunes from your favourite filmsfancy a film?: get in the mood for the oscars authorities in taiwan say they are looking into a  ransomware  cyber-attack on a major technology firm there. quanta computer is a manufacturer of many flagship apple products, including its macbook line. the hackers, known as revil, have published stolen blueprints for unreleased products, and are threatening to release more. taiwanese officials said they are "taking an initial step to look into and understand" the incident. it is being handled by the ministry of justice's investigation bureau. on their darknet website, the anonymous hackers are attempting to extort a ransom from apple directly, writing: "we recommended that apple buy back available data by 1 may." it is understood they are asking for tens of millions of pounds. how close the alleged blueprints will be to any actual future products is not clear. bloomberg reports that the leaked materials include the schematics for a future macbook laptop. the guardian reports that a new apple watch is also among them.  apple event: airtag, ipad and imac lead line-upapple to allow parler back on app storegoogle and apple attacked on app store 'monopoly' apple has not responded, but quanta confirmed a cyber-attack had taken place. in a press release, the company said: "quanta computer's information security team has worked with external it experts in response to cyber-attacks on a small number of quanta servers. "we've reported to, and kept seamless communications with, the relevant law enforcement and data protection authorities concerning recent abnormal activities observed. there's no material impact on the company's business operation." the release of the hacked material came just hours before apple's major product showcase event on tuesday.  revil said the timing was not a coincidence, writing that the data leak was "in order not to wait for the upcoming apple presentations". the taiwanese investigation bureau, under the ministry of justice, told nikkei asia: "we are aware of an alleged cyber-attack involving quanta and we are taking an initial step to look into and understand the nature of the incident. "but we have not yet opened a case and launched an official probe." the revil group - also known as sodinokobi - is one of the most prolific and profitable cyber-criminal cartels in the world. the gang has previously hacked and extorted foreign exchange company travelex, and new york law firm grubman shire meiselas & sacks. the association of british insurers (abi) has defended the inclusion of  ransomware  payments in first-party cyber-insurance policies. it said insurance was "not an alternative" to doing everything possible to first minimise the risk. however, it added that firms could face financial ruin without the cover. prof ciaran martin, former head of the national cyber security centre, said the uk needed to rethink its policies on  ransomware .  ransomware  is a form of  malware  in which infected computers are remotely locked by cyber-criminals, who then demand a ransom, often in the form of bitcoin, to unlock them and return the data they hold. there are many examples of businesses and public bodies which have chosen to pay because they do not have the data backed up, or cannot afford - or do not have time - to rebuild their systems from scratch. the guardian reported that prof martin, now at oxford university's blavatnik school of government, said he believed insurers were "funding organised crime" by accepting  ransomware  claims, but he told the bbc the issue of how to tackle  ransomware  was far broader than just the insurance sector. while official advice is not to pay the demand, it is not illegal to do so in the uk, he said. "i have some sympathy with insurers, because as long as it's legal, there are incentives to pay." while the ransom demand may be high, the alternative impact can also be devastating. when the global aluminium producer norsk hydro was attacked in 2019, it cost the firm around £45m, and its profits in the immediate aftermath plummeted by 82%, reported reuters.   norsk hydro refused to pay the demand, which would arguably have been cheaper - but it did have insurance. a spokesman for the abi said insurers do require that "reasonable precautions" are taken to prevent cyber-attacks from succeeding in the first place, just as cars and houses require security measures in place to deter thieves. "some might argue that any insurance that covers against a criminal act could lull the policyholder into a false sense of security," he said. prof martin said he did not think that banning  ransomware  insurance claims would necessarily solve the problem. "but it's worth a serious piece of consultation because if we continue as we are, things will get worse," he said. the maker of popular video game cyberpunk 2077 has been hacked in a  ransomware  attack. cd projekt red said hackers had accessed its internal network, digitally scrambled some of its data servers and tried to blackmail it. the perpetrators claim to have stolen source code for several of the firm's games which they said they would leak unless a payment was made. but the polish games company said it would not negotiate. in a statement on twitter, cd projekt red posted a copy of the ransom note which said the hackers had copied code from cyberpunk 2077, gwent, and witcher 3, including an unreleased version of the latter. “we have also dumped all of your documents relating to accounting, administration legal, hr, investor relations and more!” the note added. "dumping" means copying the information to an external source. “if we will not come to an agreement, then your source codes will be sold or leaked online and your documents will be sent to our contacts in gaming journalism,” read the note, giving a deadline of 48 hours. source code is the human-readable version of a computer program before it is transformed for use. releasing it could make it easier for people to write hacks for the titles or even publish their own altered versions, as well as reveal some of their development secrets. in a statement, posted by the game developers on twitter, it said it has secured its “it infrastructure and begun restoring the data” from back-ups. “we will not give in to the demands or negotiate with the actor,” it said, adding that no personal data had been compromised in the breach. the company has informed law enforcement and data protection authorities, while it investigates the issue. this is the latest in a series of bad news for the developers after the release of cyberpunk 2077 was delayed several times, only for users to then experience glitches in the game. "this will be frustrating for users of the game, but as consumers are generally very sympathetic when something like this happens," said louise shorthouse, senior gaming analyst at ampere analysis.  "this comes after a string of recent  ransomware  attacks on games companies, including capcom and ubisoft late last year. "fixes and updates for cyberpunk 2077 may take a backseat for a while, as mitigating the effects of the  ransomware  attack becomes the priority." this probably couldn't have come at a worse time for the embattled games studio. however, its response has been extraordinary and is already being praised by the cyber-security world.  in one tweet, the company has demonstrated a new gold standard response to dealing with  ransomware . the company is being transparent about the attack but also says it is not negotiating with the cyber-criminals and instead relying on well-managed back-up systems. cd projekt red has even released a screen grab of the ransom note which will be invaluable for researchers. it doesn't sound like much and there will be questions about how the firm was able to be breached in the first place. but in a world of empty press releases and companies secretly paying criminals huge ransoms, cd projekt red has shown what can and, in the eyes of many, should be done to deal with the growing problem of  ransomware  hacking.  a  ransomware  attack on a school district in maryland has halted classes for more than 115,000 pupils.  ransomware  is a type of cyber-attack that locks down affected systems and make them unusable. and for baltimore county public schools district, it meant all pupils learning remotely because of the pandemic could suddenly no longer access lessons. the district was hit last wednesday, before thanksgiving day, but schools will remain shut on monday and tuesday. "our focus today and for monday and tuesday is identifying and addressing student and staff device needs so that instruction can continue," it said in a sunday evening update. but local newspaper the baltimore sun is reporting it could take weeks to restore the school district's computer systems fully. classes could, however, resume within days, using alternative methods, the newspaper suggested. offices remain open for staff. and the district is still providing free school meals. the school district took to social media to post updates and implore students not to log in to the compromised systems using school-issued windows laptops. but it has offered very few details about the nature of the  ransomware , beyond calling it a "catastrophic attack on our technology system". as the name suggests,  ransomware  is often used to hold the victim to ransom - demanding payment to restore the system.  but there is no guarantee the cyber-criminals will stick to their word once payment is made and law enforcement urges affected companies not to comply. the baltimore school district said local, state and federal law enforcement agencies were all involved. "we understand how challenging this situation is for families and staff," it said. "and we thank you for your patience as we work through this crisis." cyber-security companies are warning about the rise of so-called 'extortionware' where hackers embarrass victims into paying a ransom. experts say the trend towards ransoming sensitive private information could affect companies not just operationally but through reputation damage. it comes as hackers bragged after discovering an it director's secret porn collection. the targeted us firm has not publicly acknowledged that it was hacked. in its darknet blog post about the hack last month, the cyber-criminal gang named the it director whose work computer allegedly contained the files. it also posted a screen grab of the computer's file library which included more than a dozen folders catalogued under the names of porn stars and porn websites. the infamous hacker group wrote: "thanks god for [named it director]. while he was [masturbating] we downloaded several hundred gigabytes of private information about his company's customers. god bless his hairy palms, amen!" the blog post has been deleted in the last couple of weeks, which experts say usually implies that the extortion attempt worked and the hackers have been paid to restore data, and not publish any more details. the company did not respond to requests for comment. the same hacker group is also currently trying to pressure another us utility company into paying a ransom, by posting an employee's username and password for a members-only porn website. another  ransomware  group which also has a darknet website shows the use of similar tactics. the relatively new gang has published private emails and pictures, and is calling directly for the mayor of a hacked municipality in the us to negotiate its ransom. in another case, hackers claim to have found an email trail showing evidence of insurance fraud at a canadian agriculture company. brett callow, a threat analyst at cyber-security company emsisoft, says the trend points to an evolution of  ransomware  hacking. "this is the new norm. hackers are now actually searching the data for information that can be weaponised. if they find anything that is incriminating or embarrassing, they'll use it to leverage a larger pay-out. these incidents are no longer simply cyber-attacks about data, they are full-out extortion attempts." another example of this was seen in december 2020, when the cosmetic surgery chain the hospital group was held to ransom with the threat of publication of 'before and after' images of patients.  ransomware  has evolved considerably since it first appeared decades ago. criminals used to operate alone, or in small teams, targeting individual internet users at random by booby-trapping websites and emails. in the last few years, they've become more sophisticated, organised and ambitious. criminal gangs are estimated to be making tens of millions of dollars a year, by spending time and resources targeting and attacking large companies or public bodies for huge pay-outs, sometimes totalling millions of dollars. brett callow has been following  ransomware  tactics for years, and says he saw another shift in methods in late 2019. "it used to be the case that the data was just  encryption  to disrupt a company, but then we started seeing it downloaded by the hackers themselves. "it meant they could charge victims even more because the threat of selling the data on to others was strong." this latest trend of threatening to publicly damage an organisation or individual has particularly concerned experts because it is hard to defend against. keeping good backups of company data helps businesses to recover from crippling  ransomware  attacks, but that is not enough when the hackers use extortionware tactics. cyber-security consultant lisa ventura said: "employees should not be storing anything that could harm a firm reputationally on company servers. training around this should be provided by organisations to all their staff. "it's a troubling shift in angle for the hackers because  ransomware  attacks are not only getting more frequent, they are also getting more sophisticated. "by identifying factors such as reputational damage, it offers far more leverage to extort money from victims." a lack of victim reporting and a culture of cover-up makes estimating the overall financial cost of  ransomware  difficult. experts at emsisoft estimate that  ransomware  incidents in 2020 cost as much as $170bn (£123bn) in ransom payments, downtime and disruption. a  ransomware  attack on multiple schools has left 37,000 pupils unable to access their email. the harris federation, which runs 50 primary and secondary academies in and around london, said it had temporarily disabled email while it deals with the cyber-attack. data on the systems has been  encryption  and hidden by the attackers. last week, the national cyber security centre (ncsc) issued a warning that hackers are targeting schools. “we are at least the fourth multi-academy trust to have been targeted in march,” a statement on the harris federation website said.  “this is a highly sophisticated attack that will have a significant impact on our academies but it will take time to uncover the exact details of what has or has not happened, and to resolve. “as a precaution, we have temporarily disabled our email system.” any devices which the harris federation have given to pupils have also been disabled, the statement added.  however, schools have recently returned to in-person learning as part of the easing of lockdown restrictions - meaning students can still attend classes. harris federation schools break up for easter later this week. its statement did not detail what information or data has been compromised, and it has not yet responded to the bbc's request for comment. the trust is working with “a specialised firm of cyber-technology consultants”, the national crime agency and the ncsc to resolve the issues. the ncsc said it has "recently alerted the education sector to the significant threat posed by  ransomware  attacks" and urged schools and colleges to follow its advice to protect themselves online. it used to be the case that  ransomware  groups concentrated their efforts on large multinational companies. big corporate budgets and potential business interruption mean large ransom payouts. publicly funded schools and colleges are therefore an odd and particularly cruel target. one hacker group recently posted part of their negotiation conversation with another unnamed institution on the dark net. it made for grim reading, and once again showed me how ruthless they are. at one stage, when the hackers demanded $15m, the school wrote: "sir, please, this is not a business with profits. we operate much like a charity operates. this is a state-funded school, our salaries are paid for by taxing the people that live in the state. we have no idea how you think we can afford this." this wave of attacks in the us and uk show the hackers have no regard for where the money comes from or who is affected. the american gps and fitness-tracker company garmin is dealing with the aftermath of a  ransomware  attack, the bbc has confirmed. owners of its products had been unable to use its services since thursday. however, some of its online tools are now being provided in a "limited" state, according to its online dashboard. garmin has said it was "the victim of a cyber-attack that  encryption  some of our systems". but the statement it released avoided any reference to a ransom demand. "many of our online services were interrupted including website functions, customer support, customer-facing applications, and company communications," it said. "we have no indication that any customer data, including payment information from garmin pay, was accessed, lost or stolen." the firm added that it expected all its systems to return to normal operation within a few days, but warned that there might be a "backlog" of user data to process. it is not known if the firm paid the blackmailers, but a source told the bbc it was in the "final stage of recovery". the bbc's cyber reporter joe tidy said the  malware  involved was wasted locker - a program that scrambles the target's data, and was first detected in the wild around april. victims are typically contacted after their computers are infected, and told they must transfer funds if they want to return the files to their original state. some customers have already reported that garmin's services appear to be "partially" working again.  earlier reports claimed that the company had been asked to pay $10m (£7.79m) to get its systems back online. twitter hack: bitcoin exchange 'blocked 1,000 transactions'how hackers extorted $1.14m from a us university pilots who use flygarmin were unable to download up-to-date aviation databases, which aviation regulators such as the faa require pilots to have, before they can fly. customers were also unable to log into garmin connect to record and analyse their health and fitness data. there have been many high-profile attacks in recent months, but few victims have been as tight-lipped as garmin. even now, despite confirmation from many different sources across different newsrooms, the company is choosing not to admit it was  ransomware . the big question is whether or not the company paid the blackmailer what is likely to be a multi-million dollar demand. it seems the company has somehow got the decryption key it needs to start bringing services back online. as well as customers and shareholders, the us authorities will be very keen to know what happened. members of evil corp, the criminal group that's suspected of being behind the hack, were indicted in 2019 by the us treasury. computing giant microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the uk, us, germany, japan and china has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years.  yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. however, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting microsoft's widely-used exchange email system. and the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. so is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more pcs, or should businesses be more worried? firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a pc.  increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing  malware  that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the pc to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. this is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect  malware , because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. microsoft hack: 3,000 uk email servers unsecuredhundreds of uk firms hacked in global cyber-crisiscyber-flaw affects 745,000 pacemakers security experts have told the bbc that even if it departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "people don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains australian cyber-security researcher robert potter.  mr potter built the washington post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the australian government on cyber-security. "firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." there have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as robbinhood, a  ransomware  that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then  encryption  all files until a bitcoin ransom has been paid. this  malware  held the data of several us city governments hostage in may 2019.  another example is thunderspy, an attack that utilises the direct memory access (dma) function that pc hardware components use to talk to each other. this attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is  encryption , the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "if device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains chris boyd, a  malware  intelligence analyst at security firm  malware bytes.   "remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." the good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to gabriel cirlig, a security researcher with us cyber-security firm human (formerly white ops). "it is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the bbc. typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users.  firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem.  the national institute of standards and technology (nist), an agency within the us department of commerce, continually updates a national vulnerability database (nvd) with new security flaws. the database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity.  carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says mr cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data.  nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "this is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as  phishing  scams,  malware  or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the bbc spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security. "firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says mr boyd.  "it's like when  ransomware  first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." mr boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point mt cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger.  "microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says mr potter.  "as we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. and if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it." a council left without online services for weeks following a cyber-attack is to receive £3.68m from the government to help towards the cost of rebuilding its systems. the attack was estimated to have cost redcar and cleveland council £10m, with the authority having to foot the remainder of the bill itself. it said no ransom was paid to the hackers. critics said the government should be covering more of the cost. experts from the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) had to be drafted in to help restore appointment bookings, planning documents, social care advice and council housing complaints systems that had been knocked offline in february last year. the council said the money to be provided by the government would help replenish its reserves, which had been used to restore its online systems. it declined to say whether any services would be affected as a result of covering the remainder of the bill. council leader mary lanigan, who heads a coalition of independents and liberal democrats, said: "we are pleased that the government recognised the unique circumstances under which we requested support, and awarded grant funding, rightly distinguishing the criminal  ransomware  attack suffered by the council from the financial rescue packages of some other local authorities where permission to borrow has been granted. "no money was handed over to these criminals and we continue to hope that they will eventually be brought to justice." middlesbrough south and east cleveland mp simon clarke, a conservative, described the settlement as "exceptionally generous". fellow tory jacob young, mp for redcar, said it would "go some way to restoring the hit on the council's finances". however, former council leader sue jeffrey, of labour, said residents were being "conned into thinking they have got a good deal" having only been awarded "a tiny proportion of the support they were promised by the government and local conservative mps". follow bbc north east & cumbria on twitter, facebook and instagram. send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. at least 10 universities in the uk, us and canada have had data stolen about students and/or alumni after hackers attacked a cloud computing provider. human rights watch and the children's mental health charity, young minds, have also confirmed they were affected. the hack targeted blackbaud, one of the world's largest providers of education administration, fundraising, and financial management software. the us-based company's systems were hacked in may. it has been criticised for not disclosing this externally until july and for having paid the hackers an undisclosed ransom. in some cases, the data was limited to that of former students, who had been asked to financially support the establishments they had graduated from. but in others it extended to staff, existing students and other supporters. the institutions the bbc has confirmed have been affected are: university of yorkoxford brookes universityloughborough universityuniversity of leedsuniversity of londonuniversity of readinguniversity college, oxfordambrose university in alberta, canadahuman rights watchyoung mindsrhode island school of design in the usuniversity of exeter all the institutions are sending letters and emails apologising to those on the compromised databases. in some cases, the stolen data included phone numbers, donation history and events attended. credit card and other payment details do not appear to have been exposed. blackbaud, whose headquarters are based in south carolina, declined to provide a complete lists of those impacted, saying it wanted to "respect the privacy of our customers". "the majority of our customers were not part of this incident," the company claimed. it referred the bbc to a statement on its website: "in may of 2020, we discovered and stopped a  ransomware  attack. prior to our locking the cyber-criminal out, the cyber-criminal removed a copy of a subset of data from our self-hosted environment." the statement goes on to say blackbaud paid the ransom demand. doing so is not illegal, but goes against the advice of numerous law enforcement agencies, including the fbi, nca and europol.  blackbaud added that it had been given "confirmation that the copy [of data] they removed had been destroyed". several blackbaud clients listed on its site have confirmed they were not affected, including: university college londonqueen's university belfastuniversity of the west of scotlandislamic reliefprevent breast cancer "my main concern is how reassuring - impossibly so, in my opinion - blackbaud were to the university about what the hackers have obtained," commented rhys morgan, a cyber-security specialist and former student at oxford brookes university, whose data was involved.  "they told my university that there is 'no reason to believe that the stolen data was or will be misused'.  "i can't feel reassured by this at all. how can they possibly know what the attackers will do with that information?" blackbaud has said it is working with law enforcement and third party investigators to monitor whether or not the data is being circulated or sold on the dark web, for example. barrister blogger matthew scott was also sent an email about the hack. "i doubt that my university has many details that aren't pretty easily available, but i am more concerned about giving in to the blackmail and blithely accepting the word of the blackmailer that all the data has now been destroyed," he told the bbc. under general data protection regulation (gdpr), companies must report a significant breach to data authorities within 72 hours of learning of an incident - or face potential fines.  the uk's information commissioner's office [ico], as well as the canadian data authorities, were informed about the breach last weekend - weeks after blackbaud discovered the hack. an ico spokeswoman said: "blackbaud has reported an incident affecting multiple data controllers to the ico. we will be making enquiries to both blackbaud and the respective controllers, and encourage all affected controllers to evaluate whether they need to report the incident to the ico individually." leeds university said, in a statement: "we want to reassure our alumni that, since being informed by blackbaud of this incident, we have been working tirelessly to investigate what has happened, in order to accurately inform those affected. no action is required by our alumni community at this time, although, as ever, we recommend that everyone remains vigilant." more than 3,000 uk email servers remain at risk from the global microsoft exchange email flaw, officials believe. the national cyber security centre said it estimated 7,000 servers had been affected by the flaw in the uk and only half had been secured. it said  malware  had been detected on 2,300 machines but it had helped businesses remove it. the agency said it was "vital" that all affected businesses took action to secure their email servers. the announcement reveals the scale of the problem among uk companies for the first time since the global security flaw emerged last week.  ransomware  groups have begun using the flaw to install their malicious programs, the ncsc warned - though there was no evidence of widespread  ransomware  attacks on uk companies so far. once installed,  ransomware  locks away a user's data behind strong  encryption , making the computer system unusable. the group then demands payment to unlock it - and if demands are not met, will steal or delete the data. the security flaw affects microsoft's widely-used exchange email system, which powers the email of major corporations, small businesses and public bodies worldwide. the ncsc is particularly concerned about small and medium-sized businesses that may not have heard about the issue. initially, the flaw was being exploited by a hacking group to gain remote access to email servers, from which it could steal sensitive data. but after microsoft warned the world it had identified the problem, and urged all its users to download the latest security updates, other hacking groups quickly became familiar with the flaw. the result is a widespread free-for-all as multiple hacking groups all try to find unpatched email servers to attack. "we are working closely with industry and international partners to understand the scale and impact of uk exposure, but it is vital that all organisations take immediate steps to protect their networks," ncsc's director for operations paul chichester warned. "while this work is ongoing, the most important action is to install the latest microsoft updates." he also urged all organisations to "familiarise" themselves with the guidance surrounding  ransomware  attacks - and to search for any signs of their systems already being compromised. the true scale of this problem is still emerging with thousands of systems vulnerable in the uk alone. what is not yet entirely clear is the overall impact. while many systems are still at risk and thousands had  malware  installed, the number of cases where we know this was actually used to steal emails or lock people out with  ransomware  is still fairly low.  that may change in the coming days as more reports come in.  what is clear is that multiple hacking groups have piled in to exploit the vulnerability and those working on the defensive side are likely to stay busy for some time to come. scotland's environmental watchdog has spent nearly £800,000 on its response to a major cyber attack, new figures show.  the scottish environment protection agency (sepa) had more than 4,000 of its digital files stolen by hackers on christmas eve. the files were released on the internet when sepa refused to pay a ransom. the public body has warned it could be next year before its systems have fully recovered from the attack.  figures released to bbc scotland under freedom of information laws show a total of £790,000 has been spent on sepa's response and recovery actions so far.  this includes £458,000 on stabilising the watchdog's business it platform. sepa has restored the majority of its key services, such as flooding forecasting, but it is expected a full recovery from the attack will take up the remainder of 2021-22.  sepa subject of 'significant cyber attack'cyber criminals publish more than 4,000 stolen sepa files terry a'hearn, sepa's chief executive, said: "whilst we initially lost access to our data and systems, what we didn't lose was the expertise of our 1,200 staff.   "since christmas eve, teams across the agency have been working flat-out to support our people, partners and customers and to restore our systems services as quickly as possible.  "our clear recovery strategy is gradually seeing systems being restored. by easter, over 70% of staff will be back online and we're engaging data recovery specialists and are confident that we will recover the most important data." sepa rejected a ransom demand for the attack, which was claimed by the international conti  ransomware  group. contracts, strategy documents and databases were among the 4,000 files released. the data has been put on the dark web - a part of the internet associated with criminality and only accessible through specialised software. some of the information stolen was already publicly available but other files, including data about staff and suppliers, was not. sepa told bbc scotland a total of 54 people had been in touch to ask if their data was among the files stolen. this includes 27 current and former staff members.  police scotland is investigating the crime and has previously indicated the likely involvement of international serious and organised crime. det insp michael mccullagh said: "police scotland is continuing to work closely with sepa to investigate and provide support in response to this incident. "the actions of the criminals behind this crime show a blatant disregard for public safety, evident in this sickening attack on an organisation like sepa. this type of crime and its impacts can be significant. "i would urge caution in the viewing and downloading of any data published by cyber criminals. the likelihood of those files being infected and making you their next victim is high." a watchdog is probing a cyber-attack on a council which is still unable to provide any online services more than a week after its systems were crippled. redcar and cleveland borough council's website and all computers at the authority were attacked last saturday, affecting 135,000 residents. one expert said it looked like a  ransomware  attack, where files are scrambled until a ransom is paid. the council notified the information commissioner's office (ico). the watchdog said the authority had "made us aware of an incident and we are assessing the information". the national crime agency said it was supporting the council, which has refused to confirm the nature of the hack. online appointment bookings, planning documents, social care advice and council housing complaints systems are just some of the services currently offline. a team of experts from the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) has been on site since the attack at 11:00 gmt on 9 february.  council leader mary lanigan said "systems are being rebuilt" and they had "a massive team here - including cyber-security experts - working around the clock flat out to get it fixed". the council said: "we are still able to receive and answer limited calls and emails and we will be prioritising urgent messages. "there may be a slight delay in dealing with non-urgent calls and messages as the council's website is currently down. "our teams are working hard to resolve the problem and we would like to thank residents for their continued patience at this time." security researcher kevin beaumont said: "it seems almost certain they have suffered a severe  ransomware  incident. "the serious nature of the attack and the impact it has had should raise eyebrows with uk authorities about the need to put more resources into tackling cyber-crime groups." follow bbc north east & cumbria on twitter, facebook and instagram. send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. a council has admitted its it service is being targeted by hackers, who have scrambled files and demanded money. systems at redcar and cleveland council have been down for almost three weeks after the  ransomware  attack. it said it had been prioritising frontline services and has now built a new server and website, as well as mobilising a temporary call centre. however, there may be a short delay in letting children know which secondary school they have got places at. since the attack on 8 february, the council has been working with the national cyber security centre and the national crime agency. bbc cyber security reporter it has taken 19 days for the council to admit they are dealing with a  ransomware  attack.  this particularly nasty form of hack is unique and a growing problem for large targets like public authorities and companies. informing the public their council is being held to ransom is a key piece of information that many think people have a right to know. it makes the situation far more serious as hackers are in control of computer systems and possibly sensitive data.  the only options are to pay the cyber criminals or rebuild from scratch by using offline backups, which is often far more costly. with private firms the decision over whether or not to pay is often taken at board level behind closed doors but redcar and cleveland is a tax-payer funded body and residents may begin to demand transparency about how their money is being used. councillor mary lanigan, leader of the council, said: "significant progress has been made.  "all frontline services have continued, payments continue to be processed as normal, and there is no evidence so far to suggest any personal information has been removed from our servers. "however, it may be some time before our it capabilities are fully restored which may mean frustration for the public in dealing with us administratively." the delay in informing parents and carers of secondary school places would not affect the actual allocation, and it was anticipated primary admissions would be made on time, she said. "as a council, we have always taken cyber security seriously, and we will continue to engage with the relevant authorities to ensure our systems are as secure as possible in the future," she said  follow bbc north east & cumbria on twitter, facebook and instagram. send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. a  computer-virus  forced a us-regulated maritime facility offline for more than 30 hours, the country's coast guard has revealed.   ransomware  interrupted cameras, door-access control systems and critical monitoring systems at the site. the agency did not reveal the name or the location of the facility targeted by the attack.  officials said they believed the  ransomware  was sent in a malicious email link, clicked by an employee.  the us coast guard (uscg) issued a security bulletin on 16 december, urging other bases to take measures to prevent further attacks.  "once the embedded malicious link in the email was clicked by an employee, the  ransomware  allowed for a threat actor to access significant enterprise information technology (it) network files, and encryption them, preventing the facility's access to critical files," it said.  "the computer-virus  further burrowed into the industrial control systems that monitor and control cargo transfer and  encryption  files critical to process operations." how a  ransomware  attack cost one firm £45mwhat is  ransomware ? the bbc has contacted the uscg for more details.   ransomware  attacks were a significant problem during 2019, when several companies and governments were targeted.  the city of new orleans declared a state of emergency in december after suspicious activity was detected on its network.  once officials confirmed they were under attack, servers and computers were closed down.  weeks earlier, virtual care provider, which offers technology services to nursing homes, was hit by a  ransomware  attack that  encryption  patients' health records.  hackers demanded $14m (£10.6m) to restore access to the hijacked servers.  a  ransomware  attack on a us natural gas facility meant a pipeline had to be shut down for two days, the us department of homeland security (dhs) has said. however, it did not name the facility or say when the attack happened. a malicious link sent to staff at the facility eventually caused the shutdown "of the entire pipeline asset". it was so severe in part because the organisation was not prepared for such an attack, the dhs statement said. the incident was detailed in a security alert., which revealed it to be a "spear- phishing " attack, in which individuals are sent fraudulent but believable scam messages. that let the attacker into the company's it network. often, the "operational network" which runs computers in the factory is separated from the office it - but not in this case, meaning the  ransomware  infection was allowed to spread.  ransomware  typically  encryption  files on a victim's computer and demands payment before offering to unlock them again - although there is no guarantee that the cyber-criminals who develop such software will be true to their word. a spate of  ransomware  attacks has troubled various us organisations recently - from local authorities to hospitals to a maritime base. in the case of the natural gas facility, only one office was targeted, but others in different geographic locations were forced to close down, too. the dhs said the affected organisation had not properly prepared for a cyber-attack of this kind - with its emergency plans being focused on all sorts of physical attacks instead. "consequently, emergency response exercises also failed to provide employees with decision-making experience in dealing with cyber-attacks," the department added. all organisations, regardless of what sector they are in, should prepare for the possibility of a  ransomware  attack, said carl wearn, head of e-crime at cloud email firm mimecast. businesses could do this "by implementing offline back-ups with a fall-back email and archiving facility, as a minimum" he said. pupils' coursework has been destroyed in a "significant" cyber-attack on a school. redborne upper school and community college in bedfordshire said the attack took place on wednesday. although no data was taken, the school's servers were left unreadable resulting in "the loss of a significant amount of data", it added. the school said it was working "to ensure that no students will be disadvantaged". in a letter sent to parents on friday, the school, based in flitwick road, ampthill, said it had rebuilt its servers. it said: "this process has resulted in the loss of a significant amount of data including student user areas." the school said no data had left its servers "and no unauthorised persons have access to any information". students' personal data including academic records was kept on a different server, said the school. the letter said: "it is this data that will form the basis of the grades we will be supplying to exam boards this summer in most cases." however, it added coursework, which would play "a significant role" in some subjects, had been lost. "to mitigate this we have already contacted the exam boards and are in the process of putting in place arrangements to ensure that no students will be disadvantaged by the impact of this," the letter said. the school added it still has "sufficient data" to "award accurate grades this summer". the incident comes days after the university of northampton reported it had been hit by a cyber-attack which had interrupted it and telephone services. newcastle university faces cyber-attacknorthumbria university hit by cyber-attackuk universities in blackbaud attack the national cyber security centre said since late february an increased number of  ransomware  attacks had affected education establishments. speaking on the today programme on friday, its chief executive lindy cameron said the coronavirus pandemic has "highlighted both the scale of our dependence on the digital world and the challenges we face". but she added the uk is "one of the safest places to live and work online". find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk a major electricity supplier in south africa's largest city has suffered a  ransomware  attack, leaving some residents without power. city power revealed on thursday that its it systems had been shut down. "it has  encryption  all our databases, applications and network," the company tweeted, referring to the computer-virus . city power's website remains offline and residents have reported problems via social media with their electricity supplies. the  ransomware  attack initially affected customers' ability to buy pre-paid electricity and also hampered the firm's efforts to respond to localised blackouts. a spokesman for city power told the bbc that more than a quarter of a million people might have been affected. "these are the people on pre-paid system[s] and would at any given day buy electricity," he said. "those people were not able to access the system."  ransomware  is a type of  malware  that infects computers and  encryption  or locks files and systems. attackers say they will restore access once a payment is made - but there is no guarantee that they will do so.  the city of johannesburg, which owns the electricity company, said that most it systems had now been restored. however, city officials acknowledged that there were still problems and said customers could log faults on an alternative website. "customers should not panic as none of their details were compromised," read a tweet posted by the city's official twitter account. "we apologise for the inconvenience caused to the people of the city of joburg." a university said it continued to be "severely impacted" nearly a week after being hit by a cyber-attack. the university of northampton said the attack on 17 march interrupted services to its it and telephone systems and servers. the information commissioner's office (ico) has been told "as a precaution" and police are investigating. a spokesman for the university said it was working to "resolve this issue as quickly as possible". he said the university had involved "it forensics investigators" who were advising on how to restore services and the possible cause. "the full facts of the situation have not yet been established," he added. third-year journalism student, lucy holmes, 20, who has her final-year project to hand in shortly, said the loss of the university intranet was "very annoying". ms holmes said it meant she could not access any of her course material, tutor feedback or the online library, "which is really hard when i am trying to complete my dissertation".  fellow student, richard smyth, 19, from northern ireland, was having all his lectures online with one day a week of face-to-face learning.  the first year student said the cyber attack has meant that all assignment deadlines have had to be pushed back.  he added that students still had access to uk wifi networks.  "there has been some alternative ways to get round this [cyber attack] with teachers trying their best to keep things going using alternative video-conferencing platforms," he said.  universities and colleges were warned by the uk's cyber-security agency about a rise in cyber-attacks. the national cyber security centre said that since late february, an increased number of  ransomware  attacks had affected education establishments. earlier this month queen's university in belfast had to suspend access to several of its systems as a precaution following an attempted cyber-attack. newcastle university faces cyber-attacknorthumbria university hit by cyber-attackuk universities in blackbaud attack the university of northampton said those who carried out the attack had "no regard to the disruption to teaching and learning such attacks cause". northamptonshire police said it was working with the national cyber security centre to "support the university and investigate this cyber-attack".  a spokeswoman for the force said inquiries were "ongoing". find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk hundreds of uk companies have been compromised as part of a global campaign linked to chinese hackers. cyber-security firm eset said more than 500 email servers in the uk may have been hacked, and many companies are not aware they are victims of the attack. it comes as governments around the world warn organisations to secure their systems. but some experts fear it may be too late, as at least 10 hacking teams are capitalising on the chaos. the uk's national cyber security centre has joined us authorities in issuing warnings about the hack, but says it is still assessing the situation for uk businesses. meanwhile, the norwegian cyber-authority is actively scanning for at-risk companies in the country and warning them directly. the hacking campaign was first announced by microsoft on 2 march and blamed on a chinese government-backed hacking group called hafnium. microsoft said the group was using four never-before-seen hacking techniques to infiltrate the email systems of us companies. the attackers targeted the popular email system microsoft exchange server, used by large corporations and public bodies across the world. us warns of 'active threat' over microsoft attackeu bank authority hit by microsoft email hackmicrosoft email server hacks put biden in a bind microsoft released software updates for the so called "zero-day" exploits and urged customers to install them to protect themselves. however, the hacking has escalated from straightforward espionage to crisis levels, with some reports estimating tens of thousands of organisations could be affected. according to cyber-security researchers at eset, as many as 10 different hacking groups are now actively using the zero-days exploits to target companies in 115 different countries.  cyber-researchers at fireeye also confirmed they had detected multiple groups, likely to be based in china, using the exploit in different waves. "as always, it is complex but it is very likely that hafnium gifted these 'zero days' to government-sanctioned groups to actively use the flaws once they were rumbled," jake moore at eset said. "the race is now on for all of those affected to patch immediately and then painstakingly check for any recent compromises and make sure no webshells are installed on the servers." a webshell is a piece of computer code that can act like a backdoor into a computer network.  once installed, hackers have a foothold in a network and can either steal or spy on email messages, or use the access to launch more crippling cyber-attacks. globally, eset says it has detected the backdoors on 5,000 separate servers - and more than 500 of them are in the uk. cyber-security responders are racing to find out which companies have been hacked, and remove the webshells to kick the hackers out of their systems. cyberguard technologies says it is dealing with 42 separate cases where hackers have installed webshells, with the number rising by the hour. the companies range from financial institutions, manufacturing and retail. sean tickle, head of cyberguard, said: "it's widespread and very much a case of hackers hosing their attacks at as many targets as they can before companies can secure their systems. "it only takes someone to alter this approach to drop a more malicious  malware  package and we're going to see some real hurt for the companies that fall behind.  "there's already rumblings that these shells are being used, and i think we're going to see mass  ransomware  attacks happen as a second wave of this." three us hospitals have been forced to temporarily close their doors to "all but the most critical new patients" following a  ransomware  outbreak. "a criminal is limiting our ability to use our computer systems in exchange for an as-yet unknown payment," said dch health system. dch operates the three affected hospitals in alabama. one cyber-security expert said the groups using  ransomware  were becoming increasingly well organised. computers at the dch regional medical center in tuscaloosa, fayette medical center and northport medical center were infected with  ransomware . the incident was first reported on 1 october. "we will continue to divert any new admissions, other than those that are critical, to other facilities," dch said in its statement. local ambulances have been asked to take patients to other local hospitals instead, where possible. outpatients with appointments at any of the three hospitals were advised to call before attending them. however, elective procedures and surgery already scheduled for 2 october were planned to go ahead.  it is not yet known what group or individual launched the  ransomware . separately, seven hospitals in australia have also reported disruptive  ransomware  infections. "some elective surgery and appointments have been cancelled," said barwon health, one hospital operator affected by the incident. the government of victoria said the seven hospitals were located in gippsland and south-west victoria. multiple computer systems have had to be disconnected as a result, which has meant some patient record, booking and management services have been shut down.  this could affect efforts to contact patients and schedule appointments, the government of victoria said: "where practical, hospitals are reverting to manual systems to maintain their services." in cases where patient histories, charts, images and other information has been made unavailable, it may be necessary to reschedule some appointments, the authority added. daniel andrews, premier of victoria, told local media it could take "weeks" before the problems were fixed. the victorian government cyber incident response service has dealt with more than 600 cyber-attacks since july 2018. "unfortunately the groups breaking into individual computers at organisations are becoming rapidly better at obtaining access across networks, and then causing chaos with a goal to being paid," said uk-based cyber-security expert kevin beaumont. "this problem isn't going to go away," he added. he said organisations needed to review their security procedures and ensure that backups were in place - and also that such backups had been recently tested - so that data and systems could be restored in the event of a  ransomware  infection. hackers have infected 23 organisations connected to local government in the us state of texas with  ransomware . officials indicated the attack over the weekend was co-ordinated. the texas department of information said the attack had primarily affected smaller local government departments. a spokesman said the situation was still ongoing on monday morning. texan authorities have drafted in cyber-security experts, as well as the military and counter-terrorism units, to help bring systems back online. in a statement, the texas department of information resources said evidence suggested the attacks "came from one single threat actor". officials did not release specific details of the affected departments or say whether the cyber-criminals had specified a ransom amount.  ransomware  is a type of  malware  that cyber-criminals use to disable a computer and its data until a ransom is paid. hackers have targeted a number of us states this year, paralysing government computers in new york, maryland and florida. in may, hackers seized control of thousands of government computers in baltimore. the attack disabled email accounts and prevented online payments to city departments for weeks. officials in baltimore refused to pay the ransom, opting instead to manually process thousands of transactions, including home sales. they also slowly restored access to around 10,000 employee email accounts. the city estimated losses of around $18m (£15m) from the attack. the hackers originally demanded $100,000 worth of bitcoin. other cities have chosen to pay. in june, council leaders in riviera beach, florida, voted to pay almost $600,000 in the digital currency bitcoin to hackers who paralysed the city's computer systems for weeks. a week later, officials in lake city, florida paid hackers $500,000 following a similar  ransomware  demand. lisa forte, a partner at red goat cyber security, which specialises in cyber-security testing, said ransom payments left cities vulnerable to more attacks. she said: "even if you do recover your data, your organisation will likely be added to a list on the dark web of 'organisations that pay ransoms'. this may lead to you being targeted again."   ransomware  attacks are on the increase. liron barak, chief executive of cyber-security firm bitdam, said the complex structure of government departments often made them an easy target for hackers. she said: "in addition, local governments tend to communicate with a wide variety of businesses and individuals, with many of them being one-time contacts. "this makes them more vulnerable to attacks, as their employees don't know most of the contacts with whom they communicate, in person." google has inadvertently thwarted attempts by baltimore's city government to fight off crippling  ransomware . the cyber-attack struck civil computers in baltimore on 7 may, blocking email accounts and online payment systems. city officials set up gmail accounts to restore communications between citizens and staff. the mass creation of the accounts triggered google's gmail defences which shut them down, believing they were being used by spammers. google said it restored access to the gmail accounts once it discovered who had created them and why.  "our automated security systems disabled the accounts due to the bulk creation of multiple consumer gmail accounts from the same network," google told the boingboing website. the cyber-attack has meant that many day-to-day administration tasks of baltimore's city government have stopped. it has delayed the sales of many homes, and stopped water bills being generated. and people cannot pay tax bills or parking fines.  a manual workaround for the home sales has been put in place, and the switch from internal email to gmail was another scheme to defeat the attackers.  the cyber-criminals who launched the  ransomware  attack have demanded a payment of $100,000 (£79,000) in bitcoins to restore control of official systems to city workers. about 10,000 computers were hit by the computer-virus . baltimore has so far refused to pay the ransom. the fbi and secret service are known to be investigating. city mayor bernard young said it was unclear when systems would be back in full operation. last year baltimore was hit by a cyber-attack which knocked out the communications systems for emergency services for a day.  a free scheme to prevent cyber-attack victims paying ransom to hackers claims to have saved more than 200,000 victims at least $108m (£86m). the no more ransom project offers advice and software to recover computer files  encryption  in  ransomware  attacks. founded by europol, police in the netherlands, and mcafee, it now has more than 150 global partners. with 14 new tools introduced in 2019 alone, europol says it can now decrypt 109 different types of infection.  "when we take a close look at  ransomware , we see how easy a device can be infected in a matter of seconds," says steven wilson, head of europol's european cybercrime centre (ec3).  "a wrong click and databases, pictures and a life of memories can disappear forever.  "no more ransom brings hope to the victims, a real window of opportunity, but also delivers a clear message to the criminals: the international community stands together with a common goal, operational successes are and will continue to bring the offenders to justice." among the  ransomware  campaigns tackled by the project is gandcrab - one of the most aggressive in 2018. since the release of the first gandcrab tool in february 2018, nearly 40,000 people have successfully decrypted their files, saving roughly $50m in ransom payments.  in 2019, there has been a surge in  ransomware  attacks particularly aimed at large companies. one company, norsk hydro, has already spent well over £50m recovering from an attack in march that halted production lines and locked staff out of their computers.  in the us, multiple local government authorities have been hit with  ransomware  attacks, some choosing to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to hackers.  after south korea, most web traffic to no more ransom comes from the us.  however, the us is not a partner in the project. the full partners consist of 36 law enforcement agencies from europe, asia and south america. the us should be doing more to help victims and tackle cyber-criminals, says fabian wosar, head of cyber-security company emsisoft, which has donated more decryption tools to the project than anyone else. mr wosar told bbc news: "projects like no more ransom have been crucial when it comes to fighting  ransomware  on a global level, with pretty much all major parties cooperating on a global and daily basis, sharing intel[igence] in real-time - except for the us. "the us should consider the success of the no more ransom project to be a call to action.  "better cooperation between the private sector and law enforcement could result in fewer ransom demands being paid.  "that would make cyber-crime less profitable and, consequently, reduce the financial incentive for groups to commit cyber-crime." politicians representing a us city struck by a  ransomware  attack are asking questions of the national security agency after claims it helped make the breach possible. the new york times reported on saturday that a hacking vulnerability known as eternalblue has been exploited to blackmail baltimore's local government. the nsa discovered the flaw, but the paper claims that its cyber-spies kept the discovery secret for years. the nsa declined to comment. but the report has particular resonance as the organisation is headquartered at fort meade, maryland, which is a short drive from baltimore. "we don't have anything for you on this," an nsa spokesman told the bbc. the eternalblue flaw has been implicated in a range of cyber-attacks over the past three years, including the  ransomware  assault that disrupted the uk's nhs. it involves a bug in old versions of microsoft's windows operating system that allows other malicious code to be run on infected computers. the nsa reportedly created a tool to do this, which it also called eternalblue. ethical hackers take bugs to the bankgoogle thwarts baltimore  ransomware  fightbackbaltimore government held hostage by hackers'  ransomware  the new york times said the agency did not disclose the problem to microsoft for more than five years until a breach forced its hand. microsoft released a fix for eternalblue flaw in march 2017. weeks later, a group calling itself the shadow brokers leaked the nsa's related hacking tool online. the nsa has never confirmed how it came to lose control of its code nor officially commented on the affair. but the suggestion is that if it had shared its findings with microsoft at an earlier stage, fewer pcs would have been exposed to subsequent attacks that made use of the vulnerability. thousands of baltimore's city government computers were frozen on 7 may after their files became digitally scrambled. the criminals responsible demanded 13 bitcoin ($114,440; £90,200) to unlock them all, or three bitcoin to release specific systems ahead of a deadline, which has now passed. the authorities refused. local residents have been unable to pay utility bills, parking tickets and some taxes online as a consequence. in addition, staff have been unable to send or receive emails from their normal accounts. senator chris van hollen and congressman dutch ruppersberger have told the baltimore sun newspaper that they are now seeking "a full briefing" directly from the nsa. "we must ensure that the tools developed by our agencies do not make their way into the hands of bad actors," the senator told the paper. some security experts say if eternalblue is truly involved, then it managers should have installed a patch long ago. but one consultant noted that this may have been easier said than done. "for some organisations, patching can be a non-trivial exercise, even with a couple of years of lead time," said troy hunt. "specialised systems such as medical devices, for example, often go unpatched for long periods of time. "offsetting that risk are factors such as the devices not being internet-connected. although given we're still seeing infections due to eternalblue two years after it was patched, evidently there are still systems out there both unpatched and exposed." it's not exactly the talk of the town here - after all, it's not like facebook has gone down, merely crucial public services.  for those who have been affected, it's very frustrating - a delayed house sale here, a new business that can't open on schedule there. one person told me about how they have been unable to pay for their wedding venue at a place part-owned by the city.  another told me they couldn't go online to pay a parking ticket - that's not as fortunate as it sounds, trust me.  a further kick in the teeth for this city is the suggestion that this attack used an exploit discovered not by the russians or chinese, but by an organisation based just 20 miles away - the us national security agency.  city officials want answers on that, but locals don't want it to be a scapegoat. there have been repeated warnings here about severe underinvestment in government it infrastructure.  the us city of baltimore's government, long plagued by dysfunction, is now battling a  ransomware  attack that has crippled its systems for more than two weeks and counting. hackers breached the maryland city's servers on 7 may and demanded $100,000 (£79,000) worth of bitcoin. the  ransomware  has blocked government email accounts and disabled online payments to city departments.  baltimore city officials have so far refused to pay the ransom.  it is the second cyber-attack to strike the city in as many years - the last one knocked out its emergency dispatch system for about a day.  the fbi and secret service are investigating the latest breach. baltimore mayor bernard "jack" young has acknowledged it is unclear when the systems will be back in operation this time. "i know the folks in the technology office are working diligently to bring us back on board," said his spokesman, lester davis. aviel rubin, a cybersecurity expert and computer science professor at johns hopkins university in baltimore, estimates "conservatively" that it will be months before the systems are up and running.  "it's clear the system was vulnerable," he adds. hated, hunted and in hiding: meet the  ransomware -slayerhuge aluminium plants hit by cyber-attack ransomware  tops malicious attack chartsbaltimore mayor resigns over book scandal more than 1,500 homes sales have been delayed because the hackers left the city unable to notify insurers whether the sellers had any unpaid liens. baltimore this week rolled out a "manual workaround" to allow real estate transactions to proceed during the outage.  but citizens are unable to access online sites to pay their water bills, property taxes and parking tickets. and 10,000 city government computers are locked, leaving employees with no email. the city said there would be no late fees or fines during the technological shutdown.  in the ransom note, obtained by the baltimore sun, hackers demanded payment of three bitcoins - currently worth around $23,600 - per system, or 13 bitcoins for the release of the entire government network.  if the city failed to pay within four days, the note said, the price would increase.  after 10 days - a deadline that lapsed last week - the city would not be able to get the data back.  "we've watched you for days and we've worked on your systems to gain full access to your company and bypass all of your protections," the hackers wrote.  "we won't talk more, all we know is money!"  the program, called robbinhood, makes it impossible to access the servers without a specific digital key.  prof rubin said that the  ransomware  uses a publicly available algorithm called rsa to encryption the data. "it is believed that no government has the capability to break it," prof rubin said.  without the key - held by the hackers - it's as if baltimore's government "just lost everything", he said.  baltimore has contracted computer experts to help. atlanta, georgia, was hit with a similar breach in march 2018. that one was attributed to two iranians.  local media reported the hack cost the city $17m to recover.  fortunately for atlanta, the city had cyber-insurance, which helped the city foot the bill for its digital recovery. baltimore had no such policy in place before this month's attack.  "this is impacting cities throughout the country," the baltimore mayor's spokesman said.  "it's not a matter of if, it's a matter of when." the baltimore breach reflects a wider increase in  ransomware  attacks, prof rubin said, to which many government agencies have been slow to respond.  yes. fallout from a sprawling corruption scandal in the city's police department has been playing out since 2017 after eight police officers were found guilty of robbing citizens and stealing overtime pay. earlier this month baltimore mayor catherine pugh resigned amid uproar over lucrative business deals for her self-published children's books.  mr young enjoyed no political honeymoon when he stepped in to replace ms pugh on 9 may - two days after the cyber-attack. a town in florida has paid $500,000 (£394,000) to hackers after a  ransomware  attack.  the total paid by florida municipalities over  ransomware  in the last two weeks now stands at $1.1m. officials in lake city voted to pay hackers in bitcoin after suffering downed computer systems for two weeks. coastal suburb riviera beach recently paid hackers $600,000 following a similar incident that locked municipal staff out of important files. according to reports, it staff in lake city disconnected staff computers within minutes of the attack starting, but it was too late.  workers were locked out of email accounts and members of the public were left unable to make municipal payments online. how a  ransomware  attack cost one firm £45mthe cyber-attack that sent an alaskan community back in timeraspberry pi used to steal data from nasa lab the town's insurer was contacted by the hackers and negotiated ransom payment of 42 bitcoins, or roughly $500,000. officials felt that paying the ransom was the most efficient way of regaining computer access. "i would have never dreamed this could have happened, especially in a small town like this," mayor stephen witt told local media. insurance would cover the vast majority of the ransom payment, he added, although $10,000 would be incurred by taxpayers. just last week, it was reported that another florida municipality had paid $600,000 in bitcoin to hackers following a similar  ransomware  attack. the computer infection in riviera beach, a suburb of palm beach, affected email as well as emergency response systems and forced staff to switch to using paper for some tasks.  ransomware  attacks have become an increasingly common tool for cyber-criminals. municipal staff in one alaskan community reverted to using typewriters after their computers were hit by  ransomware  last year. attacks have also affected the us cities of baltimore and atlanta as well as towns in california, north carolina and ohio, among other places. in 2016, three us hospitals were hit by  ransomware  infections. " ransomware  is the canary in the coal mine," said cyber-security expert kevin beaumont, who argued that the spate of attacks showed organisations needed to get better at basic it security.  "organisations are financing their attackers to be better than them - and sooner or later that situation may snowball for everybody else trying to defend their networks." he advised having robust back-ups and disaster recovery protocols to avoid being crippled by  ransomware , should it strike. cyber-security experts have consistently advised not paying ransoms as there is no guarantee files or computer systems will be restored. but recovering from a  ransomware  infection without paying up is also expensive.  the large aluminium manufacturer norsk hydro recently became a victim of  ransomware  and decided not to pay the hackers. nonetheless, the cost of recovering from the attack has so far totalled £45m. when malicious hackers disable your business and demand a ransom, should you pay up? many firms do out of desperation, turning to intermediaries to help broker the deal. but law enforcement says this just makes things worse. imagine the excitement when hackers gained a foothold in the computer system of norsk hydro, a global aluminium producer.  we don't know when it was, but it's likely that once inside they spent weeks exploring this group's it systems, probing for more weaknesses. when they eventually launched their  ransomware  attack, it was devastating - 22,000 computers were hit across 170 different sites in 40 different countries.  huge aluminium plants hit by cyber-attack chief information officer jo de vliegher reopens the ransom note that appeared on computers all over the company. it read: "your files have been  encryption  with the strongest military algorithms... without our special decoder it is impossible to restore the data." the entire workforce - 35,000 people - had to resort to pen and paper.  production lines shaping molten metal were switched to manual functions, in some cases long-retired workers came back in to help colleagues run things "the old fashioned way".  in many cases though, production lines simply had to stop. imagine the hacker's anticipation as they waited to receive a reply to their ransom note. after all, every minute counts for a modern manufacturing powerhouse. they probably thought they could name their price. but the reply never came. the hackers were never even asked how much money they wanted. imagine the shock.  all that work. for nothing. it's been more than three months since norsk hydro was attacked and they are still many months away from making a full recovery. it's so far cost them more than £45m. but what they've lost in productivity and revenue, they've arguably gained in reputation.  the company's response is being described as "the gold standard" by law enforcement organisations and the information security industry. not only did they refuse to pay the hackers but they've also been completely open and transparent with the outside world about what happened to them.  but there are many other companies and organisations who make the opposite choice, and evidence is growing that  ransomware  hackers are increasingly being paid off secretly by victims - and their insurance companies - looking for the easy way out.  "it's become a simple business case for many organisations to pay, and at this point it's a known secret that this is happening," says josh zelonis, cyber-security analyst at forrester.  secrecy surrounds the practice because organisations are concerned about the possibility of litigation and the damage to their reputations following an attack, says mr zelonis.  "and a lot of the time incident response companies are being brought in to broker the transaction with the adversaries themselves in order to ensure that the payment is made and recovery is possible," he says. sources in the information security industry have described multiple occasions when large, well-known companies have paid out thousands of pounds - in some cases hundreds of thousands - to hackers and not told the public or even shareholders.  more technology of business why the age of electric flight is finally upon ushow a struggling airline went soaring through the cloudthe super-tough drones and robots going where we can'thow to cope with email overloadhow fish and shrimps could be recruited as underwater spies just last week, a florida town paid hackers $600,000 (£475,000) to get its computers working again after a  ransomware  attack disabled email, hit emergency response systems and forced staff to use paper-based admin systems. it's a troubling trend that's prompted europol, the european union's law enforcement agency, to re-issue its warning that paying ransoms fuels hackers and often leads to more organised crime. one us-based company, coveware, specialises in negotiating ransoms between hackers and their victims. visiting its offices in connecticut, it's clear it operates at the sharp end of cyber-crime.  there is no permanent office, instead people move around shared workspaces. the entire team is dispersed around the world.  chief executive and founder bill siegel admits that the service is an "unpalatable" one, but insists that it is needed. he wouldn't give details on the companies that he's helped but says: "at any one time we have half a dozen to a dozen cases, some of the companies are big, including public companies and name brands." the company's own research indicates that the hackers' demands, usually an exchange of untraceable bitcoin, are increasing. "ideally we wouldn't pay or we'd negotiate down a lot," says mr siegel, "but we recognise that when a company needs to pay - and it's a large number - then that's what needs to happen, and that can be seven figures.  "everybody recognises that this is not a good outcome but you're dealing with the life or death of a company." the most infamous  ransomware  computer-virus  was called  ransomware  and infected 200,000 computers in at least 150 countries, including causing notable disruption to the national health service in the uk.  since then  ransomware  attack numbers have actually declined significantly. cyber security vendor trend micro estimates that numbers could have dropped 91% in the past year. but data from many other vendors points to a rise in more  targeted-threat s, where companies and organisations, instead of individuals, are in the cross-hairs. researchers at cyber-security company  malware bytes say that compared to the same time last year, business detections of  ransomware  have risen more than 500%.  back at norsk hydro, mr de vliegher said he tries not to think of the hackers and takes no satisfaction in knowing he foiled their plans.  "i think in general it's a very bad idea to pay," he says. "it fuels an industry and it's probably financing other sorts of crime. it goes against our company values and we have good foundations and good people. "but i understand why, for some companies who are less secure, this can be the only option." his words are echoed by europol's head of the european cybercrime centre, steven wilson.  "companies need to understand that if you continue to pay a ransom it perpetuates the crime," he says. "it encourages the criminals to commit further crimes.  "if you pay, you're fuelling organised crime on a global basis." follow technology of business editor matthew wall on twitter and facebook nurseries and childminders are being warned of the threat of cyber-attacks, in guidance from the government's national cyber security centre (ncsc). it is the first time that the agency - part of the gchq intelligence service - has given guidance to a sector caring for such young children. it includes warnings to use password protection for information for parents. "we know that incidents affecting the education sector are increasingly common," said sarah lyons at the ncsc. the cyber-agency says pre-school providers and childminders are "increasingly relying on technology to operate" and have become an "appealing target" for cyber-attacks. •cyber threat to disrupt start of university termuniversity cyber-attack to take weeks to fix cyber-criminals could be seeking personal information about children or families, and to target the payments process for parents, warns the ncsc. the early years cyber-security advice warns about  malware , so-called " malware ", and the need to protect personal information and data. "cyber-criminals will go after anybody, provided there's money to be made," says the ncsc's advice. the cyber-security agency calls for a more secure approach to sharing information, including newsletters for parents. "you should password protect newsletters so only families who have been given the password can open them," says the guidance. the ncsc says many scam emails are "preying on fears of covid-19" and warns nurseries and child minders to watch out for fake messages trying to obtain information with false claims, including: resetting passwords, receiving compensationmissed deliveries. there are also warnings about protecting computer devices, including smartphones, and to guard against scam phone calls and text messages. education at all age groups has become a significant target for cyber-attacks. a big multi-site further education college, the south and city college birmingham, has been forced to close by a "major  ransomware  attack" - with the college telling students to stay home this week. universities faced a wave of cyber-attacks last autumn, targeting research and data and causing disruption to computer systems. the ncsc is now widening its advice to the early years sector. sarah lyons, deputy director for economy and society engagement at the ncsc, said across educational settings it was "vital that all providers know how to secure their devices and sensitive data". but she said many people in early years "work on their own, without dedicated it support". "this guidance sets out the practical first steps they can take to protect themselves from cyber-incidents." "like most professions, the early years sector is increasingly reliant on technology, and this new guidance will support them with protecting sensitive data," said vicky ford, children and families minister. "it is paramount that early years settings have robust cyber-security in place to help them communicate with children, families and staff delivering early education and childcare provision safely," she said. one of the world's biggest aluminium producers has switched to manual operations at some smelting plants following a "severe"  ransomware  attack. hydro, which employs more than 35,000 people in 40 countries, says the attack began on monday night and is ongoing. some of the company's factories have been forced to halt production though other facilities, including its power plants, are functioning normally. the firm's website is down but updates are being posted to facebook. us factories were among those affected, as were smelting plants in norway. notices have been posted at the entrances to some of hydro's offices telling employees not to log in to their computers. staff worldwide are instead using mobile phones and tablets to access their emails, according to hydro's chief financial officer eivind kallevik. at some factories, workers are using printed order lists while they remain unable to retrieve order data from their computers. norwegian security authorities said they were investigating the possibility that the cyber-attack was caused by a relatively new form of  ransomware  known as lockergoga. however, they added it was not yet clear that this was the case.  a spokesman for hydro also told the bbc that he could not yet confirm who was behind the attack. he added that digital systems at hydro's main smelting plants were programmed to ensure machinery worked efficiently. however, these systems had had to be turned off at some of the facilities. "they are much more reliant today on computerised systems than they were some years ago," a spokesman said. "but they have the option of reverting back to methods that are not as computerised, so we are able to continue production." work was also stopped at some metal extrusion plants, where aluminium is processed into products such as building facades. the firm said it was working to contain and "neutralise" the attack and added that it had not caused any safety-related incidents. it added that it had data backups ready with which to restore systems once the computer-virus  had been dealt with. norway's state cyber-security agency is helping hydro to respond to the incident. cyber-security expert kevin beaumont told the bbc that if the lockergoga  ransomware  had been used, it would likely have been deployed to hydro's systems manually by an attacker. this could have been done by someone who had gained administrator access to those systems. "for an industrial manufacturing business this is potentially bad news, as it may have spread across their company, including near industrial control systems," added mr beaumont. cyber criminals who stole thousands of digital files belonging to environmental regulator sepa have published them on the internet. the public body had about 1.2gb of data stolen from its digital systems on christmas eve. sepa rejected a ransom demand for the attack, which has been claimed by the international conti  ransomware  group.  contracts, strategy documents and databases are among the 4,000 files released. the data has been put on the dark web - a part of the internet associated with criminality and only accessible through specialised software.  sepa chief executive terry a'hearn said: "we've been clear that we won't use public finance to pay serious and organised criminals intent on disrupting public services and extorting public funds. "we have made our legal obligations and duty of care on the sensitive handling of data a high priority and, following police scotland advice, are confirming that data stolen has been illegally published online.   "we're working quickly with multi-agency partners to recover and analyse data then, as identifications are confirmed, contact and support affected organisations and individuals." what is  ransomware ?cyber criminals demand ransom to unlock sepa systems the attack locked sepa's emails and contacts centre but sepa said "priority regulatory, monitoring, flood forecasting and warning services were continuing to adapt and operate". sepa said the theft was the equivalent to a fraction of the contents of an average laptop hard drive. some of the information stolen was already publicly available but other files included data about staff and suppliers was not. where information has been identified to date, staff have been contacted and are being supported. brett callow, of cyber security company emsisoft, has been tracking the sepa  ransomware  attack. he said: "conti may well be the work of the same people behind another type of  ransomware  called ryuk.  "there are similarities in the code, ransom note and attack mechanisms. "when the complete haul of data is posted like this, it usually means the group has given up hope of being able to extract payment from the victim of monetise the data in other ways.  "it's a loss for them. at this point, they've lost all leverage and the action is intended to serve as a warning to future victims." det insp michael mccullagh, of police scotland's cybercrime investigations unit, said: "this remains an ongoing investigation.  "inquiries remain at an early stage and continue to progress including deployment of specialist cybercrime resources to support this response." the authorities will be pleased. it looks like sepa decided not to play ball with the cyber criminals.  ransomware  is a scourge that is costing organisations billions of pounds and every time a victim pays, it fuels further attacks. sadly for sepa this is far from over.  by the looks of the stash of files that the hackers stole and  encryption , sepa will have months of work ahead to try to recover important documents and spreadsheets from backups and rebuild their records. it's also telling that, according to the hackers website, almost 1,000 people have so far looked at the documents.  who knows what other criminals or hackers are poring over the files right now.  making the documents open to all means that information can be extracted to potentially be used against sepa in further attacks or extortion attempts. it will be months, perhaps even years until the organisation can say it is safe once more and can put this cyber attack behind it. covid-19 catapulted the health sector to the forefront of cyber-security in 2020, but the next year is likely to see the dangers continue and evolve.  threats from nation states and criminals to the health system are a growing concern. the huge logistical challenge of rolling out vaccines faces the risk of disruption to complex supply chains. and criminal  ransomware  poses a threat at a time when the pandemic has increased our reliance on technology. the distribution of the various coronavirus vaccines may bring relief, but it also brings with it a major challenge: many of those involved have not had to think hard about security in the past. the complex global supply chain for vaccines ranges from factories in one country to internet-connected fridges in another.  it will create new pressure on doctors' surgeries, it systems, and sometimes small providers who play a critical role.  ibm has already said it has seen suspected state-hackers target the "cold chain" used to keep supplies at the right temperature during transportation. and in the uk, the national cyber security centre, which worked quickly when the pandemic began to secure vaccine research, has since pivoted its efforts towards vaccine distribution.  at least the large pharmaceutical companies are no stranger to cyber-espionage. their security officials say they first began thinking hard about the issue after a major espionage campaign back in spring 2010.  but the issues around the pandemic have changed the sector's importance.  "we are now on a grander stage," is how one person involved puts it. in july, the uk accused russian intelligence of targeting research, including for the oxford vaccine, while the us accused chinese hackers of similar activity. the emergence of "vaccine nationalism" led intelligence and security officials to raise questions about whether countries could try and undermine the efforts of others going forward.  "it could be trying to steal the intellectual property for financial purposes," tonya ugoretz of the fbi told a recent aspen institute cyber summit. "it could be to undermine confidence... or to advantage another country's own development. "we see our most determined nation-state adversaries not just relying on one method to target the supply chain, but combining cyber with using more traditional espionage and human sources."  one much discussed tactic is the deliberate spread of misinformation online about vaccinations, or questioning a country's safety and testing record.  the uk army's 77th brigade has supported a cabinet office investigation into whether foreign states are driving anti-vaccine fears within the uk.  most sentiment was domestically generated, head of strategic command general sir patrick sanders said at a recent chatham house event. and he raised the possibility of retaliation. "where these things are being fuelled from overseas, then we will take action, and if the ncf (national cyber force) has a part to play in that, it will." but despite concerns about states, experts say, criminal  ransomware  - the locking of people out of their computers and data until they pay - remains the more serious and persistent threat.    there was some talk at the start of pandemic from criminal gangs that they would not target health. but it did not last and attacks have multiplied.  a recent report from security firm positive technologies says half of all the cyber-attacks on healthcare were  ransomware  in the july-to-september quarter of 2020. us hospitals have been worse hit than the uk. it is thought this is because criminals see them as richer than their nhs counterparts. in just 24 hours in october, six american hospitals received ransom demands of at least $1m (£810,000), leading to some cancer treatments being cancelled.  "the healthcare sector has become such a big, rich, juicy target," greg garcia, executive director for the us cybersecurity of the health sector co-ordinating council, recently said. "it's as if they moved on from the financial services sector." 'don't weaponise the net' warns former cyber-chiefuk cyber-threat agency confronts covid-19 attacks the uk has made stride to fix weaknesses in the nhs systems exposed by 2017's  ransomware   ransomware  attack. even so, there are concerns it could be hit again. dr saif abed has long warned that such an attack could kill a patient. he is a former nhs doctor who left clinical practice to set up the abedgraham group, which advises on it security risks to health. "the thing that's really concerning is that attackers now understand the concept of clinical urgency," he says.  "they understand: 'if we create a risk that disrupts the ability to provide patient care, we're more likely to get a payout.'" his worry is that the pandemic has accelerated the digitisation of health. while that has brought benefits such as consultations taking place online, he says the investment needed to keep internet-connected systems and devices secure has not kept pace. dr abed says he often hears security researchers talk about hacking insulin pumps to kill someone.  but he says a bigger risk is the fact that more devices are being connected together while remaining vulnerable, leading to the risk of a cascade effect. he adds that his biggest worry is that criminals move from just locking organisations out of their health data to starting to tamper with it, posing risks to patient safety. the desire to limit further covid-19 outbreaks may also create a further drive to share data more broadly.  and that in turn may present further opportunities to steal or subvert it. another sign that the cyber-security of health is likely to be on the front line in 2021. a scottish brewery has warned other firms to stay alert after it fell victim to a  ransomware  attack. arran brewery said it was locked out of its own computer system after being duped into opening an email attachment that contained a computer-virus . according to the firm, the culprits then demanded two bitcoins, worth a total of £9,600, to restore its system. arran said it declined to pay, despite losing three months' worth of sales data from one server. the company added that it had since used an it consultant to eliminate the computer-virus , and it was working on restoring the lost data. what is  ransomware ?  ransomware  involves  computer-virus es that threaten to delete your files unless you pay a ransom. like other computer-virus es, it usually finds its way onto a device by exploiting a security hole in vulnerable software or by tricking somebody into installing it.  arran brewery managing director gerald michaluk described the attack as "very devious". he said: "we advertise job vacancies on our website. one such job vacancy was for a credit control and finance assistant post, now filled.   "out of the blue we started getting applicants for the post from all over the country and the world.   "i assumed one of my colleagues had advertised the post. however, this was not the case; the attackers had taken our website vacancy and posted it on some international jobs site.   "we were getting three of four emails a day, all with attached cvs. the computer-virus  was in amongst the genuine job seekers, and when the cv was opened it took effect." he added: "i hope if anyone finds themselves in a similar position they can recognise the mo of these bandits and not have the same issues we have had." gerry grant, chief ethical hacker at the scottish business resilience centre, said  ransomware  remained a popular "attack vector" for criminals. he said: "it can be very difficult to verify every single email that comes in but you should be suspicious about attachments from people you don't know or are not expecting. "my advice to people is that they should not pay any ransom because there is no guarantee that those responsible won't ask you for more money even if you pay up.  "the best course of action is to contact the police and alert them to an attack. "firms should also make sure they have a plan in place if it happens so they don't run about in a panic." ch insp scott tees, of police scotland's cyber crime prevention team, said: " ransomware  attacks can be very sophisticated and potentially devastating for individuals and small businesses. "we would advise every computer user to ensure they're running the latest versions of security software, have their data backed up regularly to cloud services or devices not connected to their computer. "be extremely vigilant about opening any unsolicited email and visiting websites you are not familiar with. "there is a lot of help available online including police scotland's website and www.getsafeonline.org." more than 6,000 cases of covid-related fraud and cyber-crime have been recorded by the uk's police forces during the pandemic. the action fraud team said £34.5m had been stolen since 1 march 2020. it covers activity in england, wales and northern ireland, but not scotland. in a related development, the national cyber security centre has told the bbc it is tackling about 30 "significant attacks" a month against the country's pandemic response infrastructure. these involves attempts to breach the nhs, vaccine producers and vaccine supply chains, among other organisations. "there unfortunately have been a number of successful  ransomware  incidents against businesses - i can think of roughly around 10," ncsc operations director paul chichester said. other figures disclosed by city of london police, which co-ordinates efforts to combat fraud, include: more than 150 related arrests were made since the pandemic beganmore than 2,000 websites, phone numbers and email addresses linked to the crimes were taken downthere was a total of 416,000 reports of fraud and cyber-crime  the activity peaked between april and may 2020, and january 2021 - both times when lockdowns were in force. the dedicated card and payment crime unit, which tackles criminal gangs responsible for financial fraud and scams, worked with social media platforms to take down over 700 accounts linked to fraudulent activity in 2020, of which over 250 were money mule recruiters. but this may be the tip of the iceberg. the national crime agency estimates that just one in five fraud cases are typically reported to the police.  and the volunteer-run cyber helpline told the bbc only a quarter of those who had contacted it after a cyber-attack said they had also reported the incident to the police. many of the scams involved conning people out of their money and financial details by focusing on internet shopping. related fraud was 42% higher over the pandemic than the preceding year, as criminals took advantage of the fact many physical stores had been forced to close. anna - not her real name - from cheltenham was one of thousands of people who received an sms message asking her to go online and rearrange a parcel delivery.  she filled in her details, but later suspected something was wrong. she alerted her bank and cancelled her bank card. "i thought, now i have nothing to worry about, everything is fine and case closed," she told the bbc. but the criminals used the details they had already obtained to authorise her bank to credit her account with a £9,000 loan. and a short while later they called her, pretending to be the bank.  not realising the scam, anna told them she had not taken out a loan.  "they gave me the sort code and bank account number i needed to pay back the loan, and said if i paid the £9,000 there wouldn't be any charges. "but then i was still feeling suspicious, so i googled the sort code, and it came up with a completely different bank." so, anna called her bank directly and realised the scammers had returned.  "i didn't lose any money but it did feel like a real burglary to be honest," she said.  she closed her account, and changed her email address and mobile number. but she still does not feel safe.  charities are also common targets.  one in three charities suffered a cyber-attack during the first 10 months of the pandemic, according to ecclesiastical insurance. one victim actually specialises in offering cyber-security advice to others. hackers got inside charity digital's network for seven days without being detected. they compromised its email accounts and sent false invoices to clients. the organisation's chief executive, jonathan chevallier, told the bbc the breach had not been noticed in part because all his staff had been working from home. charity digital spent more than £10,000 investigating the attack and has produced an online webinar to help others avoid a similar fate. another popular type of cyber-fraud involved romance scams, in which people looking for relationships via the net often get fooled into sending money to prospective partners, who prey on their emotions. this type of crime was 20% more common over the past year than the one before. city of london police also said key workers had also been specifically targeted. in one case, a man was arrested on suspicion of using social media to advertise bogus car insurance policies to nhs workers. the pandemic appears, however, to have coincided with a fall in one type of cyber-crime. reported cases of computer software service fraud - in which criminals call offering fake tech support to fool victims into sharing their payment card details and other credentials - dropped by 15.5%. san diego's port operator has been caught out by  ransomware . the port released a statement saying the  malware  had infiltrated its computer network and was disrupting administration systems. it said the attack had not stopped ships or boats using the port, or put members of the public in danger. the fbi and department of homeland security are helping the port investigate and clean up in the wake of the outbreak. "this is mainly an administrative issue and normal port operations are continuing as usual," randa coniglio, chief executive of the port, said in a statement. the main impact would be on the issuing of park permits, public records requests and general business services, it added. the port said some of the disruption was because of staff shutting down computers that were in danger of being compromised as the  ransomware  started to spread.  the organisation did not say which  malware  was used in the attack but added that payment was being demanded in bitcoins by the hackers behind the outbreak. the port is just one of many shipping-related industries that have been hit by  ransomware .  in july, the china ocean shipping company's terminal in long beach was briefly closed by a  malware  attack. last year, shipping giant maersk was among the high profile victims of the notpetya computer-virus  and said its business was affected for a couple of weeks. it has said the outbreak cost the company about $200m (£153m).  chinese shipping firm cosco has been caught out by windows  ransomware . the infection has knocked out some electronic communications at several of its north american locations. in a statement, it said a "local network breakdown" had hit its american region. it said it had isolated the offices as it investigated. china ocean shipping is china's largest carrier of containerised goods and the fourth largest of these maritime operators in the world. cosco's us website plus email and many phone lines were all reportedly rendered inoperable by the outbreak.  instead of using its own communications system. the infection forced cosco staff to use twitter and free yahoo email addresses to handle queries.  it is not clear which variant of windows  malware  has hit the company. it told local media in long beach that problems at the company, including in its customer service centre, had been caused by the  ransomware . on its facebook page, cosco gave few details of the infection.  it added: "so far, all vessels of our company are operating normally, and our main business operation systems are stable." it said that despite the problems it was still doing business in america and expected to make a "full and quick recovery". last year, shipping giant maersk suffered a series of problems when it was infected by the  ransomware   ransomware . cleaning up required the firm to shut its facilities at the port of los angeles for three days.  the government and nhs bodies have been criticised by mps for failing to implement measures to improve cyber-security nearly a year after a major  ransomware  attack on the service. twenty-two recommendations were made after the  ransomware  attack led to nearly 20,000 cancelled hospital appointments. the public accounts committee said it was "alarming" these measures had still not been introduced. the government said cyber-security in the nhs had improved since the attack.  nhs trusts 'at fault' over cyber-attack nhs services hit by cyber-attack the pac report found the department of health and social care (dhsc) and nhs bodies had been "unprepared" for the global  ransomware  attack, which happened in may and affected more than 200,000 computers in at least 100 countries. a total of 80 of 236 nhs trusts across england suffered disruption, as well as another 603 nhs organisations, including 595 gp practices. mps said the attack could have been "much worse" and the nhs had been "lucky" the threat had been tackled quickly. but they warned future attacks could be more sophisticated and malicious, "resulting in the theft or compromise of patient data". in february, the dhsc, nhs england and nhs improvement published a set of 22 "lessons learned" recommendations following the cyber-attack.  but months later the dhsc still did not know what the proposals would cost or when they would be implemented, the committee said. meg hillier, who chairs the pac, said: "the extensive disruption caused by  ransomware  laid bare serious vulnerabilities in the cyber-security and response plans of the nhs. "but the impact on patients and the service more generally could have been far worse. and government must waste no time in preparing for future cyber-attacks - something it admits are now a fact of life.  "it is therefore alarming that, nearly a year on from  ransomware , plans to implement the lessons learned are still to be agreed." the report said cyber-attacks were "weapons" that needed to be treated as a "serious, critical threat". it said the use of a nerve agent to poison former spy sergei skripal and his daughter yulia in salisbury had "heightened concerns about the uk's ability to respond to international threats, and hammers home the risks from those hostile to the uk". the report said: "a cyber-attack is a weapon which can have a huge impact on safety and security.  "it needs to be treated as a serious, critical threat.  "the rest of government could also learn important lessons from  ransomware ." among other recommendations, the committee called on the dhsc and nhs bodies to urgently agree on and implement cyber-security plans and provide an update on their progress to the committee in june. a department of health and social care spokesman said: "every part of the nhs must be clear that it has learned the lessons of  ransomware .  "the health service has improved its cyber-security since the attack, but there is more work to do to protect data and patient care. "we have supported that work by investing over £60m to address key cyber-security weaknesses - and plan to spend a further £150m over the next two years to improve resilience, including setting up a new national secure operations centre to boost our ability to prevent, detect and respond to incidents." a previous report by the national audit office found nhs trusts had been left vulnerable during the attack because cyber-security recommendations had not been followed.  ransomware  has become the most popular form of  malware  used in cyber-attacks, suggests a study. almost 40% of all successful  malware -based attacks involved  ransomware  suggests the annual verizon data breach investigations report. the types of systems compromised were changing too, it found, with criminals trying to hit databases not just pcs. it also indicated firms had significant success dealing with some types of cyber-attacks. they had particular success in dealing with attempts to knock web servers offline and spotting  phishing  emails,  " ransomware  breaches doubled last year and could double again this year," said gabe bassett, senior information security scientist at verizon who helped compile and write the report. once  ransomware  infects a machine it  encryption  data until a payment, usually in the form of a popular cryptocurrency, is made.   mr bassett said  ransomware  was popular because it let cyber-thieves quickly cash in on the security mistakes made by firms both large and small. desktop machines were most likely to be compromised by  ransomware , found the report, but attackers had started turning their attention to more critical business systems.  "we are seeing more and more databases hit as attackers find these systems online and encryption them," said mr bassett, adding that the numbers of such attacks trebled last year.  he said these were attractive targets because companies were more likely to pay a high ransom to unlock the business-critical data. bill conner, chief executive at security firm sonicwall said the high-profile  ransomware  and notpetya  ransomware  attacks in 2017 were behind the growing popularity of the category. and, he added, it was now starting to hit a very "target rich" segment. " ransomware  is really the first time that medium and small companies have been targeted," he said. "but they are least prepared because they have the least money and they cannot go out and hire cyber-experts."  ransomware  was just one common attack among many in the arsenal of cyber-thieves, said mr bassett.  other popular attacks include:  using stolen credentials to access corporate networks phishing  emails that look like they come from reputable financial organisationsmalicious hackers posing as senior staff who try to push through payments to fake suppliers despite the relentless tide of attacks, the report also found that companies were enjoying success when fighting off some cyber-threats, said mr bassett. firms were now much less likely to fall victim to  phishing  and so-called distributed  dos-attack  ( dos-attack ) attacks.  dos-attack  involves swamping a server with traffic so it becomes unresponsive or crashes. "we know how to deal with  dos-attack ," said mr bassett. "we have defences against them and they work." statistics in the report suggest server downtime caused by  dos-attack  often only lasts a few minutes. in addition, he said, many companies had got better at dealing with  phishing  by quarantining the machines of those staff who were most likely to click on a malicious link or document. and, added mr bassett, while cyber-attackers put billions of malicious files on the net every year, the number that got through to firms was often quite small. on average, found the verizon survey, firms received about seven pieces of  malware  a day. "that's a threat we can handle," said mr bassett. "the reality is that there's a lot that we can do. we can take some simple steps and make it much harder for attackers." years of video evidence gathered by police has been lost thanks to a  ransomware  attack on atlanta in the us.  most of the lost evidence involves dashcam recordings, said atlanta police chief erika shields in a local newspaper interview. the footage was "lost and cannot be recovered", said ms shields. about one-third of all software used by city agencies and departments is believed to have been affected by the attack, which took place in march. details of the damage done to atlanta's computer infrastructure emerged during a public meeting held to debate how the city should spend its budget. the hearings revealed that the city has assigned an extra $9.5m (£7.1m) to finance its recovery efforts. at the meeting, officials from the city administration revealed that the attack was more severe than originally thought.  more than 140 separate applications were totally or partially disabled by the attack, said daphne rackley who heads atlanta's it department. about 30% of the affected programs were "mission critical" as they were used by either the police or its courts, she said. the municipal courts in atlanta were shut for several weeks during the height of the attack and huge amounts of legal documents stretching back decades are believed to have been scrambled by the  malware . police chief shields told the atlanta journal constitution that despite losing the video recordings, no "crucial evidence" had been compromised.  dashcam footage was a "useful tool" said ms shields, but added that other evidence such as the testimony of an officer would "make or break" a case. files on individual officers' computers were also hit in the attack, although much of this data was backed up elsewhere, she said, so was not entirely lost. the hackers behind the infection, known as samsam,  encryption  key data and demanded $51,000 of bitcoins to unlock it. atlanta said it had not paid the ransom.  hackers have used  ransomware  to take the website of ukraine's energy ministry offline and encryption its files. the website currently contains a message written in english, demanding a ransom of 0.1 bitcoin - worth $927.86 (£664.98) by today's exchange rate. ukranian cyber-police spokeswoman yulia kvitko said the attack is an "isolated incident" and no other government websites have been affected. she added that the energy ministry's email system was still up and running. "this case is not large-scale. if necessary, we are ready to react and help," said ms kvitko. "our specialists are working right now... we do not know how long it will take to resolve the issue." according to cyber-security research firm alienvault, the hackers behind this cyber-attack have previously compromised other websites, but they have only made about £100 from their efforts. alienvault believes the energy ministry website has been attacked by two different hackers - the first hacker, who signs his name "x-zakaria" at the bottom of the webpage, merely defaced the website.  the security firm believes that a second hacker then came along,  encryption  the website's files, and added a  ransomware  screen and payment details.  "what has probably happened here is that a hacktivist has hacked the site for fun, then the criminal  ransomware  attacker has used their backdoor, which you can see at the bottom of the page, to try and make some money," alienvault security researcher chris doman told the bbc. he said that it was likely that these hackers were amateurs, rather than nation state attackers.  "it's certainly true that attacks against ukraine have impersonated  ransomware  before, to cover their true aim of pure destruction, and in many cases, energy companies such as this have been a prime target," said mr doman. "however, in this case the evidence points to something more mundane." the environmental regulator sepa says criminals are demanding a ransom to unlock its digital systems which have been subjected to a cyber attack since christmas eve. it said international groups were likely to be behind the  ransomware  attack that has locked its emails and contacts centre. more than 1gb of data has been stolen, including information about staff.  police scotland and the national cyber security centre are investigating.  sepa subject of 'significant cyber attack' cyber security specialists have identified the theft of about 1.2 gb of data with indications suggesting that at least 4,000 files may have been accessed and stolen. the company's internal communications have also been locked but but sepa said "priority regulatory, monitoring, flood forecasting and warning services were continuing to adapt and operate". sepa (scottish environment protection agency) said a number of systems, including email, would remain badly affected for some time and it was likely that new systems would have to be built from scratch. information submitted to sepa by email since christmas eve is not currently accessible.  this has been an incredibly sophisticated attack on scotland's environmental regulator which has locked their it systems and crippled them now for three weeks. we know that the cyber criminals have been in touch demanding money but it seems unlikely they will succeed. there's no suggestion climate change activism is at the heart of this  ransomware  attack, even though it's the environmental regulator being targeted. the hack has all the hallmarks of russian organised cyber criminals - although sepa will not confirm that. critical services like flood forecasting are unaffected but entire systems will have to be rebuilt and it's unlikely the 1,300 workers will be able to get access to their old emails and online files. the agency confirmed last week that following the attack at 00:01 on christmas eve, business continuity arrangements were immediately enacted and the agency's emergency management team was working with scottish government, police scotland and the national cyber security centre to respond to "complex and sophisticated criminality". sepa's chief executive terry a'hearn said: "partners have confirmed that sepa remains subject to an ongoing  ransomware  attack likely to be by international serious and organised cyber-crime groups intent on disrupting public services and extorting public funds. "work continues by cyber security specialists to seek to identify what the stolen data was. whilst we don't know and may never know the full detail of the 1.2 gb of information stolen, what we know is that early indications suggest that the theft of information related to a number of business areas. "some of the information stolen will have been publicly available, whilst some will not have been." he said direct contact would be made as quickly as possible with affected organisations. mr a'hearn added that staff members affected were being supported and given access to specialist advice and services. det insp michael mccullagh, of police scotland's cybercrime investigations unit, said: "this remains an ongoing investigation. police scotland are working closely with sepa and our partners at scottish government and the wider uk law enforcement community to investigate and provide support in response to this incident. "inquiries remain at an early stage and continue to progress including deployment of specialist cybercrime resources to support this response.  "it would be inappropriate to provide more specific detail of investigations at this time." hackers have stolen the data of a large cosmetic surgery chain and are threatening to publish patients' before and after photos, among other details. the hospital group, which has a long list of celebrity endorsements, has confirmed the  ransomware  attack. it said it had informed the information commissioner of the breach. on its darknet webpage, the hacker group known as revil said the "intimate photos of customers" were "not a completely pleasant sight". it claimed to have obtained more than 900 gigabytes of patient photographs. the hospital group, which is also known as the transform hospital group, claims to be the uk's leading specialist weight loss and cosmetic surgery group. it has 11 clinics specialising in bariatric weight loss surgery, breast enlargements, nipple corrections and nose adjustments. the company has previously promoted itself via celebrity endorsements, although it has not done so for several years. former big brother contestant aisleyne horgan-wallace told zoo magazine about her breast enhancement surgery with the hospital group in 2009. atomic kitten singer kerry katona, shameless actress tina malone and reality tv star joey essex from the only way is essex are also previous patients who have endorsed the clinic. the hospital group said in a statement: "we can confirm that our it systems have been subject to a data security breach. none of our patients' payment card details have been compromised but at this stage, we understand that some of our patients' personal data may have been accessed." the company said it had emailed all its customers about the cyber-attack and would contact individuals who might have had more personal details compromised.  it's understood that many before and after pictures will not include the patients' faces. one customer told the bbc he was worried about his pictures and data being in the hackers' hands. simon hails had chest reduction surgery with the hospital group. he said the company had not told him about the ransom.  "i have had an email from the hospital group informing me of a 'data security incident' but no detail as to what has been hacked," he told the bbc. "i'm obviously concerned as the last thing i want is 'before photos' being splattered around in the public domain. i've tried to keep my surgery private and not even some of my friends and colleagues know about it, so the data breach is concerning for me."  ransomware  is one of the most prolific forms of cyber-attack. it typically involves hackers gaining access to a computer network and either  encryption  files or locking users out of their systems until a ransom is paid. more recently,  ransomware  gangs have been taking a copy of the data and threatening to release it. law-enforcement agencies discourage victims from paying the ransom because doing so fuels the criminal enterprises. cyber-security company emsisoft estimates that the burgeoning form of cyber-crime has earned criminals $25bn (£18bn) in 2020. revil, also known as sodinokibi, is one of the most prolific  ransomware  groups. its high-profile victims include currency exchange travelex and entertainment law firm grubman shire meiselas & sacks. in september, the hospital group said surgery requests had increased by 25% since 2019. its chief executive tony veverka told the itv news tonight programme at the time that covid-19 health concerns had prompted the spike, as people tried to find ways to lose weight. a cyber criminal group has posted what it claims are documents stolen from hackney council in a  ransomware  attack. the publication on the dark web of the personal details of council staff and residents follows "a serious cyber-attack" on the council in october.  experts said the data was "limited" and "not visible through search engines". officials continue to work with the uk national cyber security centre and national crime agency to investigate the hack, the council said. hackney council's cabinet member for planning, guy nicholson, said the hack had affected services residents relied on, including by disrupting the ability of the council to process land search requests for those buying property. many residents have complained on social media about how the disruption has cost them financially and derailed house purchases. cyber-attack causes property purchases to collapsehackney council services remain affected by hack jessica told the bbc the hack broke the chain on her and many other people's house purchases. she told the bbc: "it's extremely frustrating as the hack has ruined our plans and cost us money that we'll never get back. the sale of our property fell through because our buyer wasn't able to carry out a search on our house so couldn't get a mortgage.  "subsequently we lost the house we were planning on buying and had already spent more than £1,000 on a survey for.  "we were hoping to have the house sorted in time to make use of the stamp duty holiday, but that's not looking likely."  the council said the vast majority of sensitive or personal information held by the council remained unaffected. it added that it would support any directly affected people. hackney's mayor philip glanville said the hack was "utterly deplorable". "i fully understand and share the concern of residents and staff about any risk to their personal data, and we are working as quickly as possible with our partners to assess the data and take action, including informing people who are affected," he said. "while we believe this publication will not directly affect the vast majority of hackney's residents and businesses, we are sorry for the worry and upset this will cause them.  "we are already working closely with the police and other partners to assess any immediate actions we need to take, and will share further information about the additional action we will be taking as soon as we can." in february last year, another local authority - redcar and cleveland borough council - was hit by a  ransomware  attack, which cost it more than £10m. this attack has caused real-world harm to residents.  the fact that people are out of pocket and have had life plans derailed because of a lack of land searches is a side effect to councils being hacked that few could have predicted. the authority isn't saying much, including whether or not they have negotiated with hackers or paid a ransom. now that the hackers are posting data from their attack on the dark web, it appears we can deduce that they have not got what they wanted.  but we don't know for sure, and this hacker group is notorious for posting or selling data even after promising victims they wouldn't.  ransomware  experts at cyber security firm emsisoft also tell me that the group, known as mespinoza, are famously very amateurish. even if hackney council did pay, i'm told the data would likely be far too damaged and scrambled to recover.  computer-virus es that threaten to delete your files unless you pay a ransom are known as  ransomware .security experts have warned that  ransomware  is the fastest growing form of  computer-virus .like other  computer-virus es, it usually finds its way onto a device by exploiting a security hole in vulnerable software or by tricking somebody into installing it.bbc technology reporter zoe kleinman explains what  ransomware  does.video journalist: chris fox companies across the globe are reporting that they have been struck by a major  ransomware  cyber-attack. british advertising agency wpp is among those to say its it systems have been disrupted as a consequence. the computer-virus , the source of which is not yet known, freezes the user's computer and demands an untraceable ransom be paid in the digital bitcoin currency. ukrainian firms, including the state power company and kiev's main airport, were among the first to report issues. the chernobyl nuclear power plant has also had to monitor radiation levels manually after its windows-based sensors were shut down. in a statement, the us national security council said government agencies were investigating the attack and that the us was "determined to hold those responsible accountable". the us department of homeland security advised victims not to pay the ransom, saying there was no guarantee that access to files would be restored. the russian anti-virus firm kaspersky lab said its analysis showed that there had been about 2,000 attacks - most in ukraine, russia and poland. the international police organisation interpol has said it was "closely monitoring" the situation and liaising with its member countries. experts suggest the  malware  is taking advantage of the same weaknesses used by the  ransomware  attack last month. "it initially appeared to be a variant of a piece of  ransomware  that emerged last year," said computer scientist prof alan woodward. "the  ransomware  was called petya and the updated version petrwrap. "however, now that's not so clear." the  malware  hall of fame what can you do to protect your business? kaspersky lab reported that it believed the  malware  was a "new  ransomware  that has not been seen before" despite its resemblance to petya. as a result, the firm has dubbed it notpetya. kaspersky added that it had detected suspected attacks in poland, italy, germany, france and the us in addition to the uk, russia and ukraine.  andrei barysevich, a spokesman for security firm recorded future, told the bbc such attacks would not stop because cyber-thieves found them too lucrative.  "a south korean hosting firm just paid $1m to get their data back and that's a huge incentive," he said. "it's the biggest incentive you could offer to a cyber-criminal." a bitcoin wallet associated with the outbreak has received several payments since the outbreak began. the wallet currently holds just over 3.5 bitcoins (£6,775; $8,670). cyber-attack: is my computer at risk?  ransomware : your questions answered an email address associated with the blackmail attempt has been blocked by german independent email provider posteo. it means that the blackmailers have not been able to access the mailbox. problems have also affected: the aircraft manufacturer antonov, and two postal servicesrussia's biggest oil producer, rosneftdanish shipping company maersk, including its container shipping, oil, gas and drilling operations. a port in mumbai is among those that has halted operationsa pennsylvania hospital operator, heritage valley health system, which reported its computer network was down, causing operations to be delayed - but it is not yet clear if it was subject to the same type of attackus food giant mondelez - whose brands include oreo and toblerone. a cadbury factory in tasmania, australia is affectednetherlands-based shipping company tnt, which said some of its systems needed "remediation"french construction materials company st gobainus pharmaceuticals-maker merck sharp & dohmethe local offices of the law firm dla piper - a sign in the firm's washington dc office said: "please remove all laptops from docking stations and keep turned off - no exceptions." the attacks come two months after another global  ransomware  assault, known as  ransomware , which caused major problems for the uk's national health service. veteran security expert chris wysopal from veracode said the  malware  seemed to be spreading via some of the same windows code loopholes exploited by  ransomware . many firms did not patch those holes because  ransomware  was tackled so quickly, he added. those being caught out were also industrial firms that often struggled to apply software patches quickly. "these organisations typically have a challenge patching all of their machines because so many systems cannot have down time," he said. "airports also have this challenge." copies of the computer-virus  have been submitted to online testing systems that check if security software, particularly anti-virus systems, were able to spot and stop it.  "only two vendors were able to detect it so many systems are defenceless if they are unpatched and relying on anti-virus," he said.  ukraine seems to have been particularly badly hit this time round. reports suggest that the kiev metro system has stopped accepting payment cards while several chains of petrol stations have suspended operations. ukraine's deputy prime minister has tweeted a picture appearing to show government systems have been affected. his caption reads: "ta-daaa! network is down at the cabinet of minister's secretariat." get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning mansplaining,  ransomware  and hangry are among more than 1,000 words that have been added to the latest oxford english dictionary (oed). also included are initialisms used on the online parenting forum mumsnet such as ttc - meaning trying to conceive. oed senior editor fi mooring said the words chosen will resonate "even with people who are not parents". the dictionary consults experts to determine what should be added to its 829,000 words. the oed is updated four times a year with the next update due in april 2018. ttc - trying to conceivebfn/ bfp - big fat negative/ big fat positive (related to the results of a pregnancy test)cio - cry it outhangry - bad-tempered or irritable as a result of hungerhazzle - to dry in open airlactivism - advocating in favour of breast-feeding, rather than bottle-feedingtomgirl - a girl or woman who acts or dresses in a manner conventionally more associated with boysgeg - liverpudlian slang for intruding or joining in uninvitedmasstige - a combination of the words masses and prestige referring to cheap products marketed as luxurious  mansplaining is defined as explaining something "needlessly, overbearingly, or condescendingly, especially to a woman, in a manner thought to reveal a patronising or chauvinistic attitude". researchers date early usage of that term to an internet exchange between a man and a woman in 2008.  although hangry has only come into common usage recently the word dates back to 1956 when it appeared in a psychoanalytic journal. the oed defines the new term snowflake as a description of someone who is "overly sensitive or as feeling entitled to special treatment or consideration".  ransomware  is another new addition - less than a year since the nhs was one of a number of global institutions targeted by the  ransomware  cyber attack that was carried out with the use of  malware . chaebol is formed by combining the korean words chae, meaning wealth, and bol, meaning faction and, in south korea, means a large business conglomerate. however, recently the word has been used to describe a luxurious lifestyle associated with families who own such businesses.  the new list sees american rapper jay-z get his sixth oed citation with the word swag being added to the dictionary. swag, derived from the word swagger, describes a bold, self-confident manner and appeared in jay-z's black album: "my self-esteem went through the roof, man. i got my swag." here are some of his other citations: "my hand around her collar, feeding her cheese." cheese is american slang for money. "we stand for hours waiting for bricks of government cheese." government cheese is a colloquial term for welfare benefits. "we grow up knowing people who pay for everything with little plastic cards—medicare cards for checkups, ebt cards for food." ebt stands for electronic benefits transfer - a system of paying out benefits with a card used in the us. "thirty minutes straight off the top of his head, never losing the beat, riding the handclaps." handclaps is the sound made by the clapping of hands. "the school of hard knocks - i'm from the school of the hard knocks; we must not let outsiders violate our blocks." the school of hard knocks is used to describe the experience of a life of hardship as an education. it has been confirmed that  ransomware  was behind a cyber-attack on a scottish health board which led to some appointments and procedures being cancelled.  nhs lanarkshire said it was a new variant of bitpaymer that infected its network on friday. the board said staff worked over the weekend to reinstate it systems. work is ongoing to establish how the  malware  was able to infiltrate the network without being detected. the cyber-attack started on friday. operations were cancelled and the work of gps was disrupted.  ransomware  is a particularly destructive form of  malware  that catastrophically struck the nhs earlier this year. while this new infection is not the notorious  ransomware  variation, which caused global chaos, it is yet another demonstration of how disruptive  ransomware  can be. what it does is encryption the data it finds on a host computer so that it can no longer be accessed, and then demands payment, often in bitcoin, for its release. experts recommend resorting to back-up files rather than paying the ransom itself as there's no guarantee that the criminals behind it will keep to their word - but there are many examples of cases where individuals and organisations have chosen to part with their cash. most  malware  travels via  phishing  emails - something that looks like it's from a trusted source and asks the recipient to click a link. it only takes a moment of being caught off-guard to be taken in.  the best defence is to keep software updated and use anti-virus protection but it can be difficult for large organisations like the nhs to implement this en-masse, when complicated, life-saving equipment is running off a network that may not adjust well to even minor tweaks. nhs lanarkshire chief executive calum campbell said: "we quickly identified the source of the  malware  and investigations are ongoing as to how this was able to infiltrate our network. "our staff have worked hard to minimise the impact on patients and our contingency plans have ensured we have been able to continue to deliver services while the it issues were resolved. a small number of systems were affected with the majority restored over the weekend and the remainder on monday." "unfortunately a small number of procedures and appointments were cancelled as a result of the incident. i would like to apologise to anyone who has been affected by this disruption. we immediately started work to reappoint patients to the earliest possible appointments." the health board said it was working with its it security providers to establish how the  malware  had infiltrated the network. a spokesman added: "our security software and systems were up to date with the latest signature files, but as this was a new  malware  variant the latest security software was unable to detect it.  "following analysis of the  malware  our security providers issued an updated signature so that this variant can now be detected and blocked." nhs lanarkshire was one of the worst-hit health authorities in scotland in the widespread cyber-attacks in may. video-game-maker capcom has warned a  ransomware  attack might have compromised gamers' personal information. up to 350,000 people could be affected, it said, and some of its own financial information had been stolen. the japanese developer is best known for franchises such as resident evil, street fighter, and monster hunter. a week-and-a-half earlier, it had said there was no indication customer information had been accessed. but in an update on monday, capcom confirmed its servers had been hit by an attack on 2 november.   ransomware  is  malware  that typically threatens to block a victim's access to their own records unless a blackmail payment is made. in this case, the attackers digitally scrambled some of the data on capcom's servers, making it impossible to view or amend, and destroyed some files outright. the ragnar locker hacker group had then demanded to be paid to undo the  encryption  involved, capcom said. on ragnor locker's dark-net webpage, the hackers didn't just post capcom's data but also an ominous message. in broken english they wrote the japanese company didn't "make a right decision and save data from leakage".  this - and the fact capcom is openly talking about the hack - suggests the company chose not to pay the cyber-criminals' extortion demand. many, including law enforcement, would actually see this as absolutely the right decision. for 18 months, police the world over have been desperately imploring  ransomware  victims not to pay hackers. the groups have made millions from companies, which often feel they have no other option but to fork out. but it seems capcom has found a way through without yielding.  no doubt the incident has affected the firm's reputation and some sensitive data is already surfacing online. but reading the disappointment in ragnor locker's statement is refreshing and rare. so far, capcom has confirmed only nine people's personal information was definitely compromised, all current or former employees. but up to 350,000 customers, business partners, and other employees might also be affected, it said. although, it could not be sure because its own logs had been "lost as a result of the attack". resident evil-maker hit in latest gaming hackgame firms targeted as part of global hacking plot the information includes different combinations of names, addresses, birthdays, phone numbers and email addresses, depending on why the data was gathered.  for example, some was from japanese customer support and some from the american capcom store or e-sports operation. "none of the at-risk data contains credit-card information," capcom's statement said.  "all online transactions... are handled by a third-party service provider. "and as such, capcom does not maintain any such information internally." the company also said it was safe for gamers to continue to play its games online and to use its websites. police have been notified, as have the japanese and uk data-protection watchdogs. "capcom would once again like to reiterate its deepest apologies for any complications or concerns caused by this incident," it said.  "as a company that handles digital content, it is regarding this incident with the utmost seriousness." nhs trusts were left vulnerable in a major  ransomware  attack in may because cyber-security recommendations were not followed, a government report has said. more than a third of trusts in england were disrupted by the  ransomware   ransomware , according to the national audit office (nao). at least 6,900 nhs appointments were cancelled as a result of the attack. nhs england said no patient data had been compromised or stolen and praised the staff response. the nao chief said the department of health and the nhs must now "get their act together". cyber-attack: your questions answered ransomware : what can you do to protect your business? malware , patches and worms defined  ransomware , which spread to more than 150 countries in a worldwide  ransomware  outbreak beginning on 12 may, was the biggest cyber-attack to have hit the nhs to date. the  malware   encryption  data on infected computers and demanded a ransom roughly equivalent to £230 ($300). the nao report said there was no evidence that any nhs organisation paid the ransom - but the financial cost of the incident remained unknown. an assessment of 88 out of 236 trusts by nhs digital before the attack found that none passed the required cyber-security standards. the report said nhs trusts had not acted on critical alerts from nhs digital and a warning from the department of health and the cabinet office in 2014 to patch or migrate away from vulnerable older software. the department of health also lacked important information, the report said. "before 12 may 2017, the department had no formal mechanism for assessing whether nhs organisations had complied with its advice and guidance." organisations could also have better managed their computers' firewalls - but in many cases they did not, it said. nhs organisations have not reported any cases of harm to patients or of their data being stolen as a result of  ransomware . nhs england has identified 6,912 appointments - including operations - that were cancelled as a direct result of the  ransomware . but it estimated that about 19,000 appointments in total may have been affected. cases included at least 139 people potentially with cancer, who had urgent referrals cancelled.  it is not known:  how many gp appointments were cancelledhow many ambulances and individuals were diverted from five accident and emergency departments unable to treat some patientshow many trusts or gps experienced delays in information, such as test results the nao credits the widely reported work of cyber-security researcher marcus hutchins, who accidentally helped to stop the spread of  ransomware . his "kill switch" involved registering a domain name linked to the  malware , which deactivated the program's ability to spread automatically. home office minister ben wallace told bbc radio 4's today programme that the government was "as sure as possible" that north korea was behind the attack. "this attack, we believe quite strongly that it came from a foreign state," he said. "it is widely believed in the community and across a number of countries that north korea [took on] this role". speaking on the same programme, former chairman of nhs digital, kingsley manning, said that a failure to upgrade old computer systems at a local level within the nhs had contributed to the rapid spread of the  malware . he said: "the problem with cyber security for the nhs is [that] it has a particular vulnerability... it's very interconnected so if you get an attack in one place it tends to spread." mr manning blamed a lack of time and resources but also "frankly a lack of focus, a lack of taking it seriously" for individual nhs organisations' failure to keep up with cyber-security improvements. "this was an extremely unsophisticated attack," he added.  the nao said the nhs "has accepted that there are lessons to learn" from  ransomware  and will now develop a response plan. it will also ensure that critical cyber-security updates - such as applying software patches - are carried out by it staff, the nao said.  ransomware  was "a relatively unsophisticated attack and could have been prevented by the nhs following basic it security best practice," said sir amyas morse, comptroller and auditor-general of the nao. "there are more sophisticated cyber-threats out there than  ransomware  so the department and the nhs need to get their act together to ensure the nhs is better protected against future attacks." keith mcneil, nhs chief clinical information officer for health and care, said: "as the nao report makes clear, no harm was caused to patients and there were no incidents of patient data being compromised or stolen. "tried and tested emergency plans were activated quickly and our hard-working nhs staff went the extra mile to provide patient care, keeping the impact on nhs services and patients to a minimum." for many executives, a serious cyber-attack is now very high on their list of risks to their organisations and a priority for disaster planning. so what is most shocking in this report is the lack of planning at a local level in the nhs for such an event.  to be fair, the department of health had developed a plan - it was just that it had not been properly communicated or tested in the nhs trusts. when disaster struck, nobody seemed to know who was in charge or what to do. of course, all of this could have been avoided if security patches had been applied to protect the windows 7 systems common throughout the nhs. once again, there had been warnings sent out by nhs digital, but many trusts failed to act upon them - though in that they were no different from many organisations around the world that were also hit. in one way, the nhs was lucky - if, instead of a friday in may, the attack had taken place on a monday in winter, with a week's appointments affected, the damage would have been far worse. cyber-security experts will tell you that dealing with attacks like these is mostly a management rather than a technology problem. and in this case the nhs proved itself incapable of managing a speedy and effective response to its first major cyber-security crisis. customer and staff data has been "compromised" in a security breach of a social housing provider's it system.   flagship group, based in norwich, said the cyber attack on 1 november took "most of our group's systems offline".  it said the incident had been caused by a suspected  phishing  or  ransomware  attack. it said it had closed down its online systems while it was investigated, and had reported the breach to police and the information commissioner's office. on its website it said: "despite our quick action, there has been some data  encryption  and some personal customer and staff data has been compromised. "we do not yet have a complete picture of all the data that has been  encryption ." the company also said it had "a high level of security measures" in place to protect data. flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. chief executive david mcquade apologised to tenants affected by the breach and those experiencing delays in having repairs carried out. "we are now working towards the recovery of all our systems," he said. "the incident has caused considerable disruption to our staff and customer services and we are concentrating on emergency situations, to ensure our customers are safe." the firm said the matter had also been reported to the regulator of social housing. norfolk police said it was being dealt with by the national cyber security centre. the information commissioner's office (ico) confirmed it had been informed. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk a new strain of  ransomware  nicknamed " ransomware " has been found spreading in russia, ukraine and elsewhere. the  malware  has affected systems at three russian websites, an airport in ukraine and an underground railway in the capital city, kiev. the cyber-police chief in ukraine confirmed to the reuters news agency that  ransomware  was the  ransomware  in question. it bears similarities to the  ransomware  and petya outbreaks earlier this year. however, it is not yet known how far this new  malware  will be able to spread. "in some of the companies, the work has been completely paralysed - servers and workstations are  encryption ," head of russian cyber-security firm group-ib, ilya sachkov, told the tass news agency. two of the affected sites are interfax and fontanka.ru. meanwhile, us officials said they had "received multiple reports of  ransomware   ransomware  infections in many countries around the world". the us computer emergency readiness team said it "discourages individuals and organisations from paying the ransom, as this does not guarantee that access will be restored".  who was affected? by ksenia idrisova and yaroslava kiryukhina, bbc monitoring initial news reports mentioned russian media websites, such as st petersburg-based fontanka.ru, as well as an airport in ukraine's odessa and a subway system in kiev.  privately-owned russian news agency interfax was hit particularly hard, to the extent that 24 hours later its website still displayed a message reading "our service is temporary unavailable". on the morning of 25 october, it transpired that russian banks had also been targeted but, luckily, were not compromised.  the russian central bank said in a statement that it had recorded a badrabbit attack on russian financial institutions, but that none of them had been compromised, as reported by rns news agency on 25 october. otkrytiye, formerly russia's biggest privately-owned bank, was one of the russian financial institutions that repelled the attack, according to rns.  prominent russian it security firm group-ib reported that badrabbit had targeted several of the top 20 russian banks but failed to penetrate their networks. "according to our data, most of the victims targeted by these attacks are located in russia," said vyacheslav zakorzhevsky at kaspersky lab. "we have also seen similar but fewer attacks in ukraine, turkey and germany."  ransomware   encryption  the contents of a computer and asks for a payment - in this case 0.05 bitcoins, or about $280 (£213). cyber-security firms, including russia-based kaspersky, have said they are monitoring the attack. the  malware  is still undetected by the majority of anti-virus programs, according to analysis by computer-virus  checking site computer-virus  total. one security firm, eset, has said that the  malware  was distributed via a bogus adobe flash update. researcher kevin beaumont has posted a screenshot that shows  ransomware  creating tasks in windows named after the dragons drogon and rhaegal in tv series game of thrones. the outbreak bears similarities to the  ransomware  and petya  ransomware  outbreaks that spread around the world causing widespread disruption earlier this year.  police have seized thousands of computers running one of the most dangerous hacking networks worldwide. the emotet network obtains access to victims' computers, via malicious email attachments, then sells it to criminals who install more dangerous  malware . police from the uk, eu, us and canada worked together to "disrupt" emotet. europol called it "one of most significant  malicious-bot s of the past decade" and one of the main "door openers" for computer systems worldwide. "once this unauthorised access was established, these were sold to other top-level criminal groups to deploy further illicit activities such data theft and extortion through  ransomware ," it said. dmitry smilyanets, from recorded future, said: "even if the creator and his support and operators are not arrested, they likely will not try to rebuild. "they have enough cash to retire in peace - or start a new criminal adventure. "a working  malicious-bot  is a very complicated and gentle system. "if more than a half of the infrastructure is not working, it's safe to say bye-bye." emotet was initially a banking  spyware , designed to spy on victims' computers and steal login details. victims would receive an apparently important word document marked for their attention.  when opened, it would ask them to "enable macros" - a seemingly innocent feature built into microsoft word that actually opened their computer up to attackers. lotem finkelstein, of check point software, said it had been tracking emotet for years. "the most successful and prevalent  malware  of 2020 by a long way", he said, it had, over the course of the year, sent  phishing  emails with more than 150,000 different subject lines and 100,000 file names for the attachments. "it constantly adjusted its  phishing  emails to victims' interests and global events - for example, the covid-19 pandemic or major shopping seasons such as black friday," mr finkelstein said. and although the europol announcement may seem "abstract", it would protect "the public from cyber-threats that have caused losses of millions, if not more, of dollars".  thousands are having their computers  encryption  by  ransomware . university college london, one of the world's leading universities, has been hit by a major cyber-attack. the university describes it as a " ransomware " attack, such as last month's cyber-attack which threatened nhs computer systems. the attack was continuing on thursday, with access to online networks being restricted. the university has warned staff and students of the risk of data loss and "very substantial disruption". university college london (ucl) is a "centre of excellence in cyber-security research", a status awarded by the gchq intelligence and monitoring service. the central london university, ranked last week in the world's top 10, says that a "widespread  ransomware  attack" began on wednesday. it was first blamed on so-called " phishing " emails, with links to destructive software.  but later the university suggested it was more likely to be from contact with a "compromised" website, where clicking on a pop-up page might have spread a  malware  infection.  ransomware  attacks are where computer systems are locked and threatened with damaging software unless payments are made. students and staff were warned that " ransomware  damages files on your computer and on shared drives where you save files" and were told not to open any suspicious attachments. the university says that it believes the risk of further infection has been contained, but it is urging staff and students to help with efforts to reduce any "further spread of this  malware ". universities, which often carry out commercially sensitive research, have become frequent targets for cyber-attacks. "however, what makes this attack interesting is the timing," said graham rymer, an ethical hacker and research associate at the university of cambridge. "hackers tend to target people who will be desperate to get access to their data and are, therefore, more likely to pay the ransom. "currently there are a lot of students who will be putting the final touches to their dissertations, so it could be that they were the targets." mr rymer said ucl seemed to have responded well to the attack and had "locked it down pretty well". "one thing ucl did is to quickly switch all drives in the system to "read-only" following the attack, which essentially prevented the  malware  from doing real damage."  mr rymer said ucl may not have been the only intended target as he had seen other businesses facing the same  malware . last month, the national health service in england and scotland was subject to a significant  ransomware  cyber-attack, as part of a global wave of attacks. an ethical hacking expert shows the bbc what happens when the  ransomware   ransomware  hits a pc.colin mclean, from abertay university, carried out the demonstration in an offline environment.the computer  malware  is thought to have spread to 150 countries after it began to take control of users' files on friday, demanding $300 (£230) to restore access. friday's cyber-attack has affected more than 200,000 victims in 150 countries, europol chief rob wainwright says. he told the bbc the act was "unprecedented in its scale" and warned more people could find themselves affected on monday morning. the computer-virus  took control of users' files, demanding payments; russia and the uk were among the worst-hit countries. experts say another attack could be imminent and have warned people to ensure their security is up to date. mr wainwright said that the  ransomware  - software that blocks access to data until a ransom is paid - was combined with a worm application - a program that replicates itself in order to spread to other computers. this, he said, was allowing the "infection of one computer to quickly spread across the networks".  he added: "that's why we're seeing these numbers increasing all the time." although a temporary fix earlier slowed the infection rate, the attackers had now released a new version of the  ransomware , he said. companies need to make sure they have updated their systems and "patched where they should" before staff arrived for work on monday morning, the eu law enforcement agency head said.  in england, 48 national health service (nhs) trusts reported problems at hospitals, gp surgeries or pharmacies, and 13 nhs organisations in scotland were also affected. what occurred was an "indiscriminate attack across the world on multiple industries and services", mr wainwright said, including germany's rail network deutsche bahn, spanish telecommunications operator telefonica, us logistics giant fedex and russia's interior ministry. however, he said that so far "remarkably" few payments had been made by victims of the attack. bbc analysis of three accounts linked with the global attack suggests the hackers have been paid the equivalent of £22,080. blogger halts  ransomware  'by accident'is my computer at risk?analysis: how it startednhs 'repeatedly warned' of cyber-attack the europol chief said his agency was working with the us federal bureau of investigation to find those responsible, and that more than one person was likely to be involved. the computer-virus  exploits a vulnerability in microsoft windows software, first identified by the us national security agency, experts have said.  after taking computers over, it displayed messages demanding a payment of $300 (£230) in virtual currency bitcoin to unlock files and return them to the user.  microsoft released security updates last month to address the vulnerability, with another patch released on friday. the uk security researcher known as " malware tech", who helped to limit the  ransomware  attack, predicted "another one coming... quite likely on monday".   malware tech, who wants to remain anonymous, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the computer-virus , which actually ended up halting it.  the 22-year-old told the bbc it was very important for people to patch their systems as soon as possible. more than $140,000 (£105,000) worth of bitcoins paid by victims of the  ransomware   ransomware  outbreak have been removed from their online wallets. it has been nearly three months since infections struck organisations worldwide, including the nhs, which faced days of disruption as a result. the bitcoin activity was noticed by a twitter malicious-bot set up by quartz journalist keith collins. the balance of all wallets known to be associated with  ransomware  is now zero. the  ransomware  hit many businesses hard, quickly infecting multiple computers on corporate networks and  encryption  them so they became useless. victims were asked to pay between $300 and $600 to get their systems back. back in may, many cyber-security experts and law enforcement agencies advised victims that paying the ransom would probably only encourage other cyber-criminals and not result in restored access to computers. however, many clearly decided to take a chance. according to bitcoin-monitoring company elliptic, an initial portion of the  ransomware  funds were moved in late july. and at about 04:10 bst on thursday, the vast majority were finally withdrawn in entirety. many watchers expect that the  ransomware  bitcoins will be put through a "mixer" - in which the currency is transferred and mixed into a larger series of payments that make it much harder to track where it ends up. but the incident has left some cyber-security experts confused. "i have no idea why they would move that money to be honest," said andy patel at f-secure. "i wouldn't imagine that they are going to try and turn those bitcoins into real money. if they do, it's going to give someone a way to track them to an actual person." instead, mr patel told the bbc the funds could be used to pay for dark web services that might leave less of a digital paper trail. in july, bitcoins paid as ransom following a separate attack - notpetya - were moved from their online wallets. many people assume bitcoin is anonymous: the online equivalent of cash. however, every transaction is completely visible to anyone who cares to look.   there are even online sites that allow you to view what is happening in the blockchain - the distributed ledger that records all bitcoin movements. the blockchain is more like a swiss bank account: you know the account number and which account transfers money to which other accounts, but you don't necessarily know who stands behind that account number.  a technique called "cluster analysis" looks across all of these bitcoin addresses and attempts to find addresses that are being used by the same people.  then, some of the other transactions in that cluster, which were not intended to be anonymous, can provide evidence of who owns those addresses. law enforcement agencies often use this classic approach to track criminals - the idea, of course, is: "follow the money." alan woodward is professor of cyber-security at the university of surrey. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning cyber-thieves have made at least $25m (£19m) from  ransomware  in the last two years, suggests research by google. the search giant created thousands of virtual victims of  ransomware  to expose the payment ecosystem surrounding the  malware  type. most of the money was made in 2016 as gangs realised how lucrative it was, revealed a talk at black hat.  two types of  ransomware  made most of the money, it said, but other variants are starting to emerge.  "it's become a very, very profitable market and is here to stay," said elie bursztein from google who, along with colleagues kylie mcroberts and luca invernizzi, carried out the research.    ransomware  is  malware  that infects a machine and then  encryption  or scrambles files so they can no longer be used or read. the files are only decrypted when a victim pays a ransom. payments typically have to be made using the bitcoin virtual currency.  mr bursztein said google used several different methods to work out how much cash was flowing towards  ransomware  creators. as well as drawing on reports from people who had paid a ransom, it sought out the files used to infect machines and then ran those on lots of virtual machines to generate "synthetic victims", he said.  cyber-hacks season: cyber-security industry 'lacks empathy' claims facebook the myth of the ‘sophisticated’ hacker hiding out among the net's criminal class cyber-crooks put into rehab camp it then monitored the network traffic generated by these victims to work out to where money would be transferred. the data gathered in this stage was also used to find more variants of  ransomware  and the 300,000 files it found broke down into 34 of them, he said. the most popular strains were the locky and cerber families, added mr bursztein. payment analysis of the bitcoin blockchain, which logs all transactions made using the e-currency, revealed that those two strains also made the most money over the last year, he said, with locky collecting about $7.8m (£5.9m) and cerber $6.9m (£5.2m). the research project also revealed where the cash flowed and accumulated in the bitcoin network and where it was converted back into cash. more than 95% of bitcoin payments for  ransomware   were cashed out via russia's btc-e exchange, found google.  on 26 july, one of the founders of btc-e, alexander vinnik, was arrested by greek police on money laundering charges. the police were acting on a us warrant and his extradition to america is being sought.  the gangs behind the  ransomware  explosion were not likely to stop soon, said mr bursztein, although established strains are facing competition from newer ones.  " ransomware  is a fast-moving market," he said. "there's aggressive competition coming from variants such as samsam and spora." novel variants were expanding quickly and many were encouraging fast expansion by paying affiliates more if they placed the  malware  on to large numbers of machines. the  ransomware  as a service model was already proving popular, he warned. "it's no longer a game reserved for tech-savvy criminals," he said. "it's for almost anyone."  this week bbc news is taking a close look at all aspects of cyber-security. the coverage is timed to coincide with the two biggest shows in the security calendar - black hat and def con.  follow all our coverage via this link apple has issued an iphone software update after reports of fake  ransomware  attacks where money was demanded in order to unlock the handset's browser. a pop-up screen accused the phone owner of accessing illegal pornography or pirating music and could not be removed. however the  ransomware  was fake - and clearing the browser cache was actually enough to restore full access. it ran on javascript, a code commonly employed by many websites. the attackers demanded £100 in the form of an itunes gift card with the code sent via text message to a designated mobile number, said security firm lookout in a blog about the  malware . "...the attack doesn't actually encryption any data and hold it ransom," wrote its security researchers. "its purpose is to scare the victim into paying to unlock the browser before he realizes he doesn't have to pay the ransom to recover data or access the browser." the patch closed the loophole but professor alan woodward, cybersecurity expert at surrey university said some iphone users have put off the update because it also includes other changes to the running of the device.  "some people have held off thinking it sounds fairly major, but obviously if they do that they won't get the protection," he said. "there is this feeling that ios [apple's operating system] and apple devices in general are less vulnerable.  "this shines a light on the fact that nothing is invulnerable. javasript is cross-platform and it's a matter of how you manage it." after a cyber-attack disrupted it services across the globe, many people have written to the bbc with questions about why it happened, how you can protect your computers and smartphones, and if the attackers will be caught. bbc technology reporter chris foxx and security expert prof alan woodward provide some answers.  ransomware   ransomware  cyber-attacks slow but fears remain "practically speaking, it's not possible to completely isolate the nhs network," said cyber-security expert prof alan woodward. "the nhs sends emails to patients who have email addresses outside of the nhs network.  "people in the nhs also use the internet heavily for research, just like academics." even a private network can be compromised, especially in an organisation with thousands of people using it daily.  "once [a computer-virus ] has managed to enter the larger network, it can then use vulnerabilities to spread," said prof woodward. since serving customers online is now part of banks' bread and butter, you would expect cyber-security to be at the very top of their priorities.  cyber-security is a game of cat and mouse, with criminals always thinking of new ways to attack systems, so no organisation is totally impenetrable.  this  ransomware  outbreak is mostly likely to affect your finances if you get infected and pay the ransom, which security experts say you should not do.  there is absolutely no guarantee the criminals would give your files back. if you run a business, there is detailed guidance on the national cyber security centre website you can follow to make sure your company is protected. how the cyber-attack can be traced to the usshould you pay the  ransomware  ransom?is my computer at risk? microsoft has already identified the way this specific strain of  ransomware  spread from device to device, and has issued a issued a fix.  as long as your operating system is up-to-date, you should be protected from this strain of  ransomware .  always make sure you are running the latest version of your operating system with the latest security fixes installed - and run up-to-date anti-virus software from a trusted company. although this strain of  ransomware  was not spread by email, always beware suspicious emails asking you to click links or download attachments. criminals will often use a widely publicised computer-virus  outbreak to send scam emails, pretending to offer help.  to prevent heartbreak, if the worst comes to the worst you should keep a backup copy of important files, photos and videos on an external hard drive.   make sure to disconnect the drive from your computer after making your backup, so  ransomware  can't access it if your computer is infected. "the bottom line is that all you can really do is keep your software, including your computer-virus  checker, up to date. ideally have updates set to automatic," said prof woodward. the purpose of a  ransomware  attack is to extort money from victims.  it is a powerful attack because people may fear losing their documents and photographs and so may be more likely to pay.  when it hits businesses and hospitals, there is extra pressure to get rid of the  ransomware  quickly.  the government has said the  ransomware  outbreak at the nhs was not a  targeted-threat  on the uk's health service.  it may be that the attackers created their computer-virus  without knowing exactly how far it would spread.  no. this strain of  ransomware  was spread from device to device by taking advantage of an old security hole in some versions of microsoft's windows operating system.  the hole is fixed in the latest versions of windows.  however,  ransomware  can be spread in rogue email attachments, so do not click links or open attachments in unsolicited emails. "practice abc - assume nothing, believe no-one, check everything," says prof woodward. yes, every operating system could theoretically be attacked. criminals tend to target systems such as windows or the android mobile operating system, because they are more widely used, increasing the chance of people falling victim.  in the same way that a burglar breaking into a home can cover their tracks, cyber-criminals can go to great lengths to hide their identity. however, many cyber-criminals have been caught and brought to justice - and the uk's national crime agency, europol and the fbi are already investigating.  other times bbc journalists have answered your questions: north korea crisis: why now and what next?syria war: why now, what happened, what next?panama papers: what happened next we now know that friday's  ransomware  attack was a global cybercrime, hitting organisations ranging from the russian interior ministry to the delivery firm fedex. but the most serious impact was here in the uk on the national health service. so what made our hospitals so vulnerable? there are plenty of theories - among them that far too many computers in hospitals were running windows xp.  microsoft stopped supporting this now quite ancient operating system back in 2014, leaving it vulnerable to attacks (although the company took the unusual step over the weekend of rushing out a patch to deal with the  ransomware  threat). the government warned nhs trusts in 2014 that they needed to move away from xp as rapidly as possible. a letter from the cabinet office told them there would be some temporary help with security for old equipment until april 2015, but after that they were on their own. "it is therefore essential that all nhs organisations put in place robust plans to migrate away from windows xp, office 2003 and exchange 2003 by that date if you have not already done so," the letter said. but did they? at the end of last year the software firm citrix said that a freedom of information request had revealed that 90% of hospitals still had machines running on windows xp. now, while that is extremely worrying, it paints an exaggerated picture. it professionals in the health service tell me that while many hospitals may have a few computers - or perhaps some key medical equipment - dependent on xp those devices would not usually be connected to the internet.  they believe that the more likely explanation dates back to march this year when microsoft issued a security update for its more recent versions of windows. it was designed to deal with a vulnerability in something called server message block, which is a protocol for sharing files across a network. we now know that friday's attack made use of this vulnerability, so hospitals which did not apply that patch were leaving themselves open to attack. so why would they have failed to act? well, many organisations take time to apply updates, wanting to be sure that there are no compatibility problems with other software applications. hospitals often have a wide and somewhat chaotic collection of software, some of which will be very old but still seen as vital by those who use it. but dr joe mcdonald, who runs what he describes as a network of geeky doctors and nurses, identifies some other issues.  he explains that since the collapse of the disastrous nhs national programme for it there is no longer a centralised approach to things like updates - each trust goes its own way.  he says his area is systematic about keeping systems up to date - but for others, cost is a big issue. "there is a real squeeze on spending - and it security isn't seen as sexy compared to things like incubators and kidney machines," he says.  the fact that so many windows xp computers are still allowed in hospitals is a reflection of the low priority given to spending on robust it. what we now need to understand is what those nhs organisations which were affected by the  ransomware  have in common, and how they differ from those which escaped unscathed.   this attack does not appear to have been targeted at hospitals. in fact, security expert professor alan woodward says it may have been an experiment by some relatively inexperienced hackers that took off in a way they didn't expect.  but the nhs will now need to think long and hard about whether it can afford to make cybersecurity such a low priority. libraries across the city of st louis are gradually regaining control of their computer systems, following a  malware  attack several days ago. criminals broke into the systems of 17 libraries, disabled them and demanded a ransom. it meant people were unable to borrow books or use the computers. all services were being restored, said waller mcguire, executive director of st louis libraries, on tuesday. no ransom has been paid to the attackers. according to intel security,  ransomware  attacks are rising in "alarming" numbers.  technical staff at the libraries across st louis had been working "through the night and weekend" to regain access to the affected servers, using the library's back-up system to restore them, mr mcguire said in a statement. their first priority had been to restore the system that allowed books to be borrowed, which had now been done, he said. mr mcguire said: "st louis public library has been working with the fbi to identify how criminals broke into our system and correct the problem.  "i apologise to patrons for any inconvenience this incident has caused: on most days thousands of st louis public library patrons check out materials and use computers for many purposes.  "the real victims of this criminal attack are the library's patrons." "an attempt to hold information and access to the world for ransom is deeply frightening and offensive to any public library, and we will make every effort to keep that world available to our patrons." three north koreans have been charged in the us over a scheme to steal and extort more than $1.3bn (£940m) from banks and businesses around the world.  the three, who are not in custody, are also accused of deploying malicious cryptocurrency programs. a canadian-american citizen was also charged with money laundering. the men are also accused of being part of the  ransomware  cyber-attack of 2017, which crippled uk health service computer systems on a national scale. announcing the charges, assistant attorney general for national security, john demers, said north korea "has become a criminal syndicate with a flag". one of the defendants, park jin hyok, was previously charged two years ago for his role in the 2014 hacking of sony entertainment pictures.  mr park, jon chang hyok and kim il are accused of criminal conspiracy, conspiracy to commit wire fraud and bank fraud. north korea accused of hacking pfizer for covid-19 vaccine dataus intelligence task force accuses russia of cyber-hacknhs cyber-attack was 'launched from north korea' the department of justice says the defendants work for the reconnaissance general bureau, north korea's military intelligence agency. "north korea's operatives, using keyboards rather than guns, stealing digital wallets of cryptocurrency instead of sacks of cash, are the world's leading bank robbers," mr demers said. all three men are believed to be in north korea, which does not extradite its citizens to face us charges. the canadian-american man, 37-year-old ghaleb alaumary, from mississauga, ontario, is accused of being the group's money launderer in a separate case announced on wednesday. officials say he has agreed to plead guilty to the charge sony entertainment picture's 2014 film, the interview, is widely believed to have been the initial motive for the attack on the film company. the satirical film, starring seth rogen and james franco, ridicules north korean leader kim jong-un, and centres around a fictitious assassination plot against him.  the men are also believed to have had a hand in the  ransomware  2.0  ransomware  attack in 2017.  the attack temporarily crippled uk national health service (nhs) computer systems and affected more than 150 countries around the world. about 40 nhs organisations and some medical practices were hit, with operations and appointments cancelled. there are broadly three reasons why governments choose cyber-attacks to further their interests: to spy on each-other; to steal intellectual property; or to meddle in politics. this indictment adds further evidence to the theory that north korea bucks the trend. the politically isolated country is actually far more interested in making money. as the assistant attorney general put it, north korean hackers are "the world's leading bank robbers". of all the major cyber powers, north korea has time and time again used its considerable skills to prop up a struggling economy. it's working rather well, too - with well over $1bn in the bank from these hacks alone. while other nations cause chaos and political noise with their hackers, north korea seems content to quietly continue lining its coffers. the three men hit by the indictment also conducted campaigns targeting us defence and energy contractors. as part of this, department of state and pentagon officials were tricked into sharing their credentials so hackers could access their computers.  "the scope of the criminal conduct by the north korean hackers was extensive and long-running and the range of crimes they have committed is staggering," acting us attorney tracy wilkison said. the uk's national cyber security centre said it fully supported the criminal charges. "working with our allies we are committed to countering malicious activity by state and non-state actors and will defend ourselves from disruptive behaviour in cyber-space," said the organisation's director for operations, paul chichester. mac users are being warned about new variants of  malware  that have been created specifically to target apple computers. one is  ransomware  that  encryption  data and demands payment before files are released. the other is  spyware  that watches what users do and scoops up valuable information. experts said they represented a threat because their creators were letting anyone use them for free. the two programs were uncovered by the security firms fortinet and alienvault, which found a portal on the tor "dark web" network that acted as a shopfront for both. in a blog, fortinet said the site claimed that the creators behind it were professional software engineers with "extensive experience" of creating working code. those wishing to use either of the programs had been urged to get in touch and provide details of how they wanted the  malware  to be set up. the  malware 's creators had said that payments made by  ransomware  victims would be split between themselves and their customers. researchers at fortinet contacted the  ransomware  writers pretending they were interested in using the product and, soon afterwards, were sent a sample of the  malware . analysis revealed that it used much less sophisticated  encryption  than the many variants seen targeting windows machines, said the firm. however, they added, any files scrambled with the  ransomware  would be completely lost because it did a very poor job of handling the decryption keys needed to restore data. "even if it is far inferior to most current  ransomware  targeting windows, it doesn't fail to encryption victim's files or prevent access to important files, thereby causing real damage," wrote the researchers. the free macspy  spyware , offered via the same site, can log which keys are pressed, take screenshots and tap into a machine's microphone.  in its analysis, alienvault researcher peter ewane said the malicious code in the  spyware  tried hard to evade many of the standard ways security programs spot and stop such programs. mr ewane said mac users needed to start being more vigilant as  malware  creators targeted them. "as os x continues to grow in market share we can expect  malware  authors to invest greater amounts of time in producing  malware  for this platform." statistics gathered by mcafee suggest that there are now about 450,000 malicious programs aimed at macs - far fewer than the 23 million targeting windows users. aamir lakhani from fortinet said mac users should make sure their machines were kept up to date with the latest software patches and be wary of messages they receive via email. "mac  ransomware  is definitely becoming bigger," he told eweek. "although market share is still small, hackers know that there is valuable data on the mac." apple declined to comment on the developments. the british cyber-security expert who defeated the  ransomware  cyber-attack has revealed he briefly thought he might have helped it spread.the  ransomware  caused havoc in uk hospitals as well as striking dozens of other organisations across the globe last month.in an exclusive interview with bbc horizon, marcus hutchins recalled how he halted the blackmailing  malware  in its tracks.uk-based viewers can see horizon: cyber attack - the day the nhs stopped, on bbc two at 21:00 bst this monday. a computer  malware  that has spread across 150 countries appears to be slowing down, with few reports of fresh attacks globally on monday. a spokesperson for police agency europol said the situation in europe "seems stable". in asia, where many offices closed before the  ransomware   ransomware  struck on friday, the attack has been less severe than expected. the  ransomware  takes over users' files, demanding $300 (£230) to restore them. the white house said on monday that under $70,000 (£54,000) had been paid in total in a bid to get any locked data released. payments could go up as the  ransomware  warned the cost would double after three days, and threatened to delete files within seven days if no payment was made. your questions answeredwho might be behind the attack?what are  malware , patches and worms? computer giant microsoft said the attack, which has affected hundreds of thousands of computers, should serve as a wake-up call. among the organisations targeted worldwide have been germany's rail network deutsche bahn, spanish telecommunications operator telefonica, us logistics giant fedex and russia's interior ministry. many firms employed experts over the weekend to try to prevent new infections. senior spokesman for europol, jan op gen oorth, told the afp news agency: "the number of victims appears not to have gone up and so far the situation seems stable in europe, which is a success. "it seems that a lot of internet security guys over the weekend did their homework and ran the security software updates." uk health minister jeremy hunt confirmed to the bbc that uk intelligence services had found no evidence of a second wave of attacks on monday. the badly affected national health service said seven out of 47 trusts that were hit were still facing serious issues. should you pay the ransom?is my computer at risk? french carmaker renault said its plant in the northern town of douai would not reopen on monday as it dealt with the cyber-attack.  in asia, the spread was reportedly slowing, with banking systems largely unaffected: australia: at least eight businesses reported being locked out of their systemssouth korea: four companies reported problems over the weekend. one cinema chain was unable to display trailersindonesia: records at two hospitals were blockedjapan: both nissan and hitachi reported some units had been affected, but not seriouslychina: computers at nearly 30,000 institutions and organisations were affected, including government agencies and hospitals, internet firm qihoo 360 said. some payment systems and government services affected, but less than feared us president donald trump's homeland security adviser tom bossert has also confirmed that no us federal government systems were affected. the countries hardest hit this won't take long. nobody knows. europol's jan op gen oorth said: "a bit early to say... but we are working on a decrypting tool". associated press quoted tim wellsmore, of us security firm fireeye, as saying: "we expect this is a small operation... they just happened to hit the mother lode." russian president vladimir putin said: "russia has absolutely nothing to do with it." eu commissioner for security julian king told the bbc on monday that the eu was proposing legislation to reinforce cyber security in the wake of the attack. some private sector security researchers say they have seen some similarities between some of the code in the recent attack and some linked to north korea in the past.  security officials in the uk, however, say they have not seen anything they would regard as hard evidence, gordon corera, the bbc's security correspondent, reports. companies in asia and europe have been warning employees to be careful when clicking on attachments and links in their emails. the message from the uk's national crime agency was "do not pay!" - there is no guarantee that systems will be restored. michael gazeley, of network box, a hong kong-based cyber-security firm, told reuters there were still "many 'landmines' waiting in people's inboxes", adding that his firm had detected a new version that infected users directly via a malicious link on hacked websites. becky pinkard, from digital shadows, a uk-based cyber-security firm, also said it would be easy for the initial attackers or "copy-cat authors" to change the computer-virus  code so it is difficult to guard against. a uk security researcher known as " malware tech", who helped to limit the  ransomware  attack, had predicted "another one coming... quite likely on monday".  malware tech, whose name was revealed in uk media to be 22-year-old marcus hutchins, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the computer-virus , which actually ended up halting it. blogger halts  ransomware  'by accident' the computing giant says the tool used in this current attack had been developed by the us national security agency and was stolen by hackers. it is highly critical of the way governments store data on software vulnerabilities. microsoft president and chief legal officer brad smith said on sunday: "we have seen vulnerabilities stored by the cia show up on wikileaks, and now this vulnerability stolen from the nsa has affected customers around the world. "an equivalent scenario with conventional weapons would be the us military having some of its tomahawk missiles stolen." the organisation also said that many organisations had failed to keep their systems up to date, allowing the computer-virus  to spread. microsoft said it had released a windows security update in march to tackle the problem involved in the latest attack, but many users were yet to run it. how roots can be traced to the us get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning the  ransomware   ransomware  cyber-attack has hit more than 200,000 computers in 150 countries since friday, europol says. governments, hospitals and major companies have all found themselves battling the  malware , which demands money in return for unfreezing computers. the computer-virus  tried to infect more computers in russia than anywhere else, according to an analysis by kaspersky lab, a russian antivirus company. the interior ministry, railways, banks and the megafon mobile phone operator - russia's second-largest - all found themselves battling demands for ransom. an interior ministry spokeswoman said about 1,000 computers using microsoft windows were attacked but these had been isolated from networks. is my computer at risk?blogger halts  ransomware  'by accident' however, the ministry's vital servers were unaffected because they were running domestic russian software, the spokeswoman said, including an operating system called elbrus that was first developed during the late years of the soviet union, the new york times reported. electronic boards at stations announcing arrivals and departures were affected, but train services were not disrupted, deutsche bahn said. many students reported seeing demands for ransoms pop up on their laptops as networks at universities across the country reported severe disruption. underfunded universities often use outdated or even pirated computer software, leaving students vulnerable to such attacks, according to bbc asia-pacific analyst celia hatton.  they are now being forced to pay $300 (£230) to continue working on end-of-year projects due to be handed in soon, our correspondent says. meanwhile, petrol stations in the western city of chongqing were unable to accept card payments after systems at china national petroleum corp became infected, the south china morning post reported. overall, hundreds of thousands of computers at nearly 30,000 institutions and organisations were affected, including government agencies and hospitals, internet firm 360 security said.  the country's biggest cinema chain cj cgv said some of its advertisement servers connected to 50 cinemas had been affected, yonhap news agency said.  a company official said films were still being screened as scheduled and the company was investigating. overall, nine cases of  ransomware  had been found, the south korean government said. the japan computer emergency response team co-ordination centre said 2,000 computers at 600 companies in japan had been affected. hitachi said it was experiencing email delays and file delivery failures and suspected the cyber-attack was to blame, although no ransom was being demanded.  the communication and information ministry said the  malware  locked patient files on computers at two hospitals in the capital jakarta. patients at the dharmais cancer hospital could not get queue numbers and waited several hours while staff found paper records, local media reported. police computer systems in the state of andhra pradesh have been hit, local media reports say. about 18 systems were hijacked an eventually disabled, the business standard reported. several companies in the cities of mumbai, hyderabad, bengaluru and chennai were also affected. however india has said that its vital computer systems largely escaped unscathed because the state organisation that manages almost all government websites installed patches to immunise its windows systems. the economic times newspaper had said india could be particularly vulnerable to the  malware  because a large number of organisations and individuals use old outdated versions of windows and there are also high numbers of people using pirated software. some of the biggest disruption was caused by attacks on the uk health system, which saw hospitals and clinics forced to turn away patients after losing access to computers. pictures on social media showed nhs computer screens with messages saying: "ooops, your files have been  encryption !" in england, 48 national health service (nhs) trusts reported problems at hospitals, doctor surgeries or pharmacies, and 13 nhs organisations in scotland were also affected. a nissan car factory in the north-eastern city of sunderland was also affected, a spokeswoman said. the spanish telephone operator telefonica said it had been attacked. telefonica's head of cyber-security chema alonso - himself a former hacker - said the infected equipment was "under control and being reinstalled". other spanish firms to be hit included power firm iberdrola and utility provider gas natural. staff were reportedly told to turn off their computers.     the car manufacturer had to halt production at many sites, including in france, slovenia and romania, as part of measures to stop the spread of the computer-virus .  on monday the firm said that 90% of its factories were running again. it said its plant at douai in northern france would be back to normal on tuesday, following checks. renault would be able to catch up with any lost production so customers would not be affected, it added. three hospitals in ireland have been affected but the government says it will not name them and patient care is "broadly unaffected".  the logistics firm said it was "implementing remediation steps as quickly as possible", without specifying how badly it had been affected. australian officials said so far only three small-to-medium sized businesses had reported being locked out of their systems. in new zealand, the ministry of business said a small number of unconfirmed incidents were being investigated. a massive cyber-attack using tools believed to have been stolen from the us national security agency (nsa) has struck organisations around the world. cyber-security firm avast said it had seen 75,000 cases of the  ransomware  - known as  ransomware  and variants of that name - around the world. there are reports of infections in 99 countries, including russia and china. among the worst hit was the national health service (nhs) in england and scotland. the bbc understands about 40 nhs organisations and some medical practices were hit, with operations and appointments cancelled. the  malware  spread quickly on friday, with medical staff in the uk reportedly seeing computers go down "one by one".  nhs staff shared screenshots of the  ransomware  program, which demanded a payment of $300 (£230) in virtual currency bitcoin to unlock the files for each computer. throughout the day other, mainly european countries, reported infections. some reports said russia had seen more infections than any other single country. domestic banks, the interior and health ministries, the state-owned russian railway firm and the second largest mobile phone network were all reported to have been hit. russia's interior ministry said 1,000 of its computers had been infected but the computer-virus  was swiftly dealt with and no sensitive data was compromised. in spain, a number of large firms - including telecoms giant telefonica, power firm iberdrola and utility provider gas natural - were also hit, with reports that staff at the firms were told to turn off their computers. people tweeted photos of affected computers including a local railway ticket machine in germany and a university computer lab in italy. france's car-maker renault, portugal telecom, the us delivery company fedex and a local authority in sweden were also affected. china has not officially commented on any attacks it may have suffered, but comments on social media said a university computer lab had been compromised. read more: who has been hit by the nhs cyber attack? explaining the global  ransomware  outbreak a hack born in the usa? coincidentally, finance ministers from the group of seven wealthiest countries have been meeting in italy to discuss the threat of cyber-attacks on the global financial system. they are expected to release a statement later in which they pledge greater co-operation in the fight against cyber-crime, including spotting potential vulnerabilities and assessing security measures. the infections seem to be deployed via a worm - a program that spreads by itself between computers. most other malicious programs rely on humans to spread by tricking them into clicking on an attachment harbouring the attack code. by contrast, once  ransomware  is inside an organisation it will hunt down vulnerable machines and infect them too.  some experts say the attack may have been built to exploit a weakness in microsoft systems that had been identified by the nsa and given the name eternalblue. the nsa tools were stolen by a group of hackers known as the shadow brokers, who made it freely available in april, saying it was a "protest" about us president donald trump. at the time, some cyber-security experts said some of the  malware  was real, but old. a patch for the vulnerability was released by microsoft in march, which would have automatically protected those computers with windows update enabled. microsoft said on friday it would roll out the update to users of older operating systems "that no longer receive mainstream support", such windows xp (which the nhs still largely uses), windows 8 and windows server 2003. the number of infections seems to be slowing after a "kill switch" appears to have been accidentally triggered by a uk-based cyber-security researcher tweeting as @ malware techblog. he was quoted as saying he noticed the web address the computer-virus  was searching for had not been registered - and when he registered it, the computer-virus  appeared to stop spreading. but he warned this was a temporary fix, and urged computers users to "patch your systems asap". many jobs can be done using software everyone can buy, but some businesses need programs that perform very specific jobs - so they build their own.  for example. a broadcaster might need specialist software to track all the satellite feeds coming into the newsroom, and a hospital might need custom-built tools to analyse x-ray images. developing niche but useful software like this can be very expensive - the programming, testing, maintenance and continued development all adds up.   then along comes a new version of windows, and the software isn't compatible. companies then face the cost of upgrading computers and operating system licenses, as well as the cost of rebuilding their software from scratch. so, some choose to keep running the old version of windows instead. for some companies, that is not a huge risk. in a hospital, the stakes are higher. security experts say a sharp increase in  ransomware  attacks is in part a result of how easy the  malware  is to acquire.researchers at cylance and alienvault were able to find off-the-shelf  ransomware  using a normal search engine, which could then be used to lock victims' computer files and blackmail them.hiding out among the net's criminalshow long until ukraine is hacked again?pay your fare using a 3d face mapcash machine hacked in five minutessee more at click's website and @bbcclick.this week bbc news is taking a close look at all aspects of cyber-security. the coverage is timed to coincide with the two biggest shows in the security calendar - black hat and def con. follow all our coverage via this link  malware  that gives victims 96 hours to pay a ransom before it starts deleting files from their pc has been spotted on the dark web. if the ransom remains unpaid, it continues deleting random files every six hours. the stampado  malware  is for sale for less than $50 for a lifetime's licence. unlike other variants, it does not need administrator rights to start infecting computers.  ransomware  is  malware  that scrambles the data on a victim's pc and then asks for payment before restoring the data to its original state.  the costs of unlocking data vary, with individuals typically paying a few hundred pounds and businesses a few thousand. "cryptoware is such a big segment of the  malware  economy,  malware  creators have to constantly release new products to keep their clients engaged and the money flowing," said security firm heimdal in a blog. in june, researchers at intel security said they had seen an "alarming" rise in the volume of  ransomware  available to hackers. they said that they had logged 124 separate variants of the  malware . the fbi also said that it had seen  ransomware  attacks double in the past year, with more than 2,400 complaints. it estimated losses from such attacks stand at $24m (£18m) in that timeframe. banks, hospitals and educational institutions have all been hit by attacks in recent months. most attempt to solve the issue internally before paying any ransoms. scientists at the university of florida (uf) say they have developed software that can stop the growing problem of  ransomware  in its tracks.  ransomware   encryption  computer files and is used by hackers who then demand money in exchange for freeing the content. it is becoming a huge problem globally. the solution - dubbed cryptodrop - detected the  malware  and stopped it after it had  encryption  just a handful of files, said its developers. patrick traynor, an associate professor in uf's department of computer and information science, worked with phd student nolen scaife and henry carter, from villanova university, on the software. "our system is more of an early-warning system," mr scaife said. "it doesn't prevent the  ransomware  from starting... it prevents the  ransomware  from completing its task… so you lose only a couple of pictures or a couple of documents rather than everything that's on your hard drive, and it relieves you of the burden of having to pay the ransom." in tests, cryptodrop had spotted 100% of  malware  samples and stopped it after an average of 10 files had been  encryption , researchers said. in may, the fbi issued a warning saying that the number of  ransomware  attacks had doubled in the past year and was expected to grow even more rapidly this year. it said that it had received more than 2,400 complaints last year and estimated losses from such attacks at $24m (£18m) for individuals and businesses. governments, large companies, banks, hospitals and educational institutions are all among the victims of such attacks. richard cassidy, an expert at security firm alert logic said of cryptodrop: "whilst the step taken by researchers at the university of florida are indeed a novel way in which to detect and contain  ransomware , it doesn't serve as the 'silver bullet' for  ransomware  as a whole." "there are new variants being written all the time and  ransomware  writers will indeed take the time to dissect and understand how this new technology operates, creating versions that will attempt to either bypass detection, or at the very least search more effectively for likely sensitive files, before  encryption  them, with the hope of having the biggest impact of securing a ransom payment." the team at uf currently has a prototype that works with windows-based systems.  it is seeking a commercial partner for the software, having recently presented its paper on the technology at a conference in japan.  ransomware  attacks on businesses around the world rose 50% last year, research into successful cyber-breaches shows. its popularity means  malware  is now responsible for 51% of all the incidents analysed in the annual verizon data breach report. this analyses almost 2,000 breaches to find out how firms were caught out by cyber-thieves. it also found that measures taken by some firms after payment systems were targeted, stopped new breaches. the rapid rise in the number of successful  ransomware  attacks was widely expected, said marc spitler, senior manager in verizon's security research division, simply because so many malicious hacking groups were adopting the tactic. " ransomware  is all about how can they get more money per infected device," he said.   a separate report by security firm symantec found that the average amount paid by victims of  ransomware  had risen to $1,077 (£834). consumers were likely to be hit straight away with  ransomware , said mr spitler, but attacks on businesses were stealthier. often, he said, attackers burrowed deeper into a company's infrastructure to find key databases that were then scrambled before payment was sought. in most attacks, booby-trapped attachments sent via email were the main delivery mechanism for  ransomware  and other  malware , found the report.  "these attacks are all about getting a foothold on a system," he said, adding that once attackers were inside an organisation they typically looked to use the back doors for many different types of attack. darren thomson, chief technology officer for symantec in europe, said its statistics suggest about one in every 131 email messages was now harbouring some kind of cyber-threat. "they are arriving in word documents and excel spreadsheets," he said, "the messages people get many times a day." the verizon report also spotted a shift in the targets of cyber-attacks with 61% of victims now being companies with fewer than 1,000 employees. the good news, said mr spitler, was that some industry sectors that had been hit hard before, now appeared less often in its attack statistics - suggesting their digital defences were starting to work. "the lack of large retailers suffering point-of-sale intrusions was a glimmer of hope," he said.  more than a quarter of the incidents which the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) responded to were covid-related, according to its latest annual report. the review covers the period from september 2019 to august 2020, so the pandemic occupied an even higher proportion of the agency's efforts after the first lockdown began. in total there were 723 incidents of all kinds, marking close to a 10% rise on the previous period. of those, 194 were covid-related. some of the incidents related to countering nation-state attacks, but most were criminal in nature, the gchq division reported. it also disclosed that it had thwarted 15,354 campaigns that had used coronavirus themes as a "lure" to fool people into clicking on a link or opening an attachment containing  malware . some involved fake shops selling ppe (personal protective equipment), test kits and even vaccines. protecting the nhs and health-related research has been a priority, the report said..  in july, the uk accused russia of trying to steal vaccine-related information through cyber-espionage.  and officials said they had continued to see an "ongoing threat" of states targeting the vaccine research-and-delivery programme.  the ncsc said it had scanned more than one million nhs ip (internet protocol) addresses to look for vulnerabilities, and had shared 51,000 indicators of compromise.  it has also carried out "threat hunting" to look for security risks on connected devices, and worked on the security of the nhs covid-19 contact-tracing app. the ncsc also warned  ransomware  attacks had become more common.  ransomware  locks people out of their computers and demands victims make a blackmail payment to restore access - and even then it is not always granted. the ncsc said it had handled more than three times as many  ransomware  incidents as in the previous year. these included an attack against redcar and cleveland council which, the officials said, had "caused considerable damage and disruption".  the report added the ncsc had observed a growing trend for such attacks to be more targeted and aggressive than previously. rather than just locking people out of access to their data until a ransom was paid, attackers often warned they would embarrass victims if they refused to comply. "we have seen the threat of data being leaked," paul chichester, director of operations, told the bbc. examples included details of staff salaries being published online. this meant victims were at risk even if they have backed up their data.  however, the ncsc said the uk did not appear to be as heavily targeted as some countries, because british victims were less likely to pay the attackers. the ncsc has also been working to increase skills and diversity in the cyber-security industry.  it said almost 12,000 girls had taken part in its 2020 competition. however, an advert for the government's related cyberfirst campaign was widely criticised last month for featuring a ballerina and the slogan "fatima's next job could be in cyber". the report also highlighted the agency's role in protecting parliament as it became "virtual" to prevent hacking of debates or votes.  and it revealed that the ncsc had just updated the system for producing cryptographic keys, which encryption classified government and military systems.  a new electronic system was introduced to replace old-fashioned punch-tape. cyber-thieves are adopting  ransomware  in "alarming" numbers, say security researchers. there are now more than 120 separate families of  ransomware , said experts studying the  malware . other researchers have seen a 3,500% increase in the criminal use of net infrastructure that helps run  ransomware  campaigns. the rise is driven by the money thieves make with  ransomware  and the increase in kits that help them snare victims.  ransomware  is  malware  that scrambles the data on a victim's pc and then asks for payment before restoring the data to its original state. the costs of unlocking data vary, with individuals typically paying a few hundred pounds and businesses a few thousand. " ransomware  and crypto  malware  are rising at an alarming rate and show no signs of stopping," said raj samani, european technology head for intel security.   ransomware  samples seen by his company had risen by more than a quarter in the first three months of 2016, he added. mr samani blamed the rise on the appearance of freely available source code for  ransomware  and the debut of online services that let amateurs cash in.   ransomware  was easy to use, low risk and offered a high reward, said bart parys, a security researcher who helps to maintain a list of the growing numbers of types of this kind of  malware . "the return on investment is very high," he said.  mr parys and his colleagues have now logged 124 separate variants of  ransomware . some virulent strains, such as locky and  ransomware , were controlled by individual gangs, he said, but others were being used by people buying the service from an underground market. "it's safe to say that certain groups are behind several  ransomware  programs, but not all," he said. "especially now with eda and hiddentear copy and paste  ransomware , there are many new, and often unexperienced, cybercriminals." a separate indicator of the growth of  ransomware  came from the amount of net infrastructure that gangs behind the  malware  had been seen using. the numbers of web domains used to host the information and payment systems had grown 35-fold, said infoblox in its annual report which monitors these chunks of the net's infrastructure. "they use it and customise it for each attack, " said rod rasmussen, vice-president of security at infoblox.  "they will have their own command and control infrastructure and they might use it to generate domains for a campaign," he told the bbc. "then they'll have some kind of payment area that victims can go to." "the different parts are tied to particular parts of the chain," he said. "infection, exploitation and ransom." the spread of  ransomware  was also being aided by tricks cyber-thieves used to avoid being detected by security software, said tomer weingarten, founder of security company sentinelone. "traditional anti-virus software is not effective in dealing with these types of attacks," he said. the gangs behind the most prevalent  ransomware  campaigns had got very good at hiding their malicious code, said mr weingarten. "where we see the innovation is in the infection vector," he said. sentinelone had seen gangs using both well-known techniques and novel technical tricks to catch out victims.  a lot of  ransomware  reached victims via spear- phishing  campaigns or booby-trapped adverts, he said, but other gangs used specialised "crypters" and "packers" that made files look benign.  others relied on inserting  malware  into working memory so it never reached the parts of a computer on which most security software keeps an eye. "it's been pretty insane with  ransomware  recently," he said.  who was behind the huge global cyber-attack? one prominent theory right now is north korea - but what we know is far from conclusive.  you may not have heard of the lazarus group, but you may be aware of its work. the devastating hack on sony pictures in 2014, and another on a bangladeshi bank in 2016, have both been attributed to the highly sophisticated group.  it is widely believed that the lazarus group worked out of china, but on behalf of the north koreans.  security experts are now cautiously linking the lazarus group to this latest attack after a discovery by google security researcher neel mehta. he found similarities between code found within  ransomware  - the software used in the hack - and other tools believed to have been created by the lazarus group in the past.  it's a mere sliver of evidence, but there are other clues to consider too. cyber-attack: your questions answeredshould you pay the  ransomware  ransom?cyber-attack: is my computer at risk?global manhunt for  ransomware  creators prof alan woodward, a security expert, pointed out to me that the text demanding the ransom uses what reads like machine-translated english, with a chinese segment apparently written by a native speaker. "as you can see it's pretty thin and all circumstantial," prof woodward said. "however, it's worth further investigation." "neel mehta’s discovery is the most significant clue to date regarding the origins of  ransomware ,” said russian security firm kaspersky, but noted a lot more information is needed about earlier versions of  ransomware  before any firm conclusion can be reached.  "we believe it’s important that other researchers around the world investigate these similarities and attempt to discover more facts about the origin of  ransomware ,” the company added.  "looking back to the bangladesh attack, in the early days, there were very few facts linking them to the lazarus group.  "in time, more evidence appeared and allowed us, and others, to link them together with high confidence. further research can be crucial to connecting the dots."  attributing cyber-attacks can be notoriously difficult - often relying on consensus rather than confirmation.   for example, north korea has never admitted any involvement in the sony pictures hack - and while security researchers, and the us government, have confidence in the theory, neither can rule out the possibility of a false flag.  skilled hackers may have simply made it look like it had origins in north korea by using similar techniques.  'wouldn’t stand up in court' in the case of  ransomware , it is possible that hackers simply copied code from earlier attacks by the lazarus group.  but kaspersky said false flags within  ransomware  were "possible" but "improbable", as the shared code was removed from later versions.  "there's a lot of ifs in there," added prof woodward.  "it wouldn't stand up in court as it is. but it's worth looking deeper, being conscious of confirmation bias now that north korea has been identified as a possibility." it’s the strongest theory yet as to the origin of  ransomware , but there are also details that arguably point away from it being the work of north korea.   first, china was among the countries worst hit, and not accidentally - the hackers made sure there was a version of the ransom note written in chinese. it seems unlikely north korea would want to antagonise its strongest ally. russia too was badly affected.  second, north korean cyber-attacks have typically been far more targeted, often with a political goal in mind.  in the case of sony pictures, hackers sought to prevent the release of the interview, a film that mocked north korean leader kim jong-un.  ransomware , in contrast, was wildly indiscriminate - it would infect anything and everything it could.  finally, if the plan was simply to make money, it’s been pretty unsuccessful on that front too - only around $60,000 (£46,500) has been paid in ransoms, according to analysis of bitcoin accounts being used by the criminals.   with more than 200,000 machines infected, it's a terrible return. but then of course, maybe the ransom was a distraction for some other political goal not yet clear.   another possibility is that the lazarus group worked alone, without instruction from north korea. indeed, it could be that the lazarus group isn’t even linked to north korea.  more questions than answers - and in cyber-war, facts are extremely hard to come by.   more  ransomware  cases may come to light on monday, possibly on "a significant scale", the uk's cyber-security agency has warned after a global cyber-attack. the national cyber security centre has advised firms how to protect computers as they start the working week. it comes after friday's attack caused disruption in 150 countries. in the uk, nhs hospitals, pharmacies and gp surgeries were the worst-affected. a handful of nhs trusts are still dealing with the problems it caused. is my computer at risk?analysis: how it started in a statement, the national cyber security centre said a  ransomware  attack of this type and on this scale could happen again although there is "no specific evidence" as yet.   it said it knew of attempts to attack organisations other than the nhs, and warned more cases could "come to light" in the uk and elsewhere as the new working week begins.  ransomware  attacks are "some of the most immediately damaging forms of cyber-attack", it said, and advised companies to: keep your organisation's security software patches up to date use proper anti-virus software services back up the data that matters to you, because you can't be held to ransom for data you hold somewhere else the nhs, fedex and the main telecoms operator in spain were among 200,000 known victims  - organisations and private individuals - of friday's global cyber-attack. the  ransomware , which locked users' files and demanded payment to allow access, spread to 150 countries, including russia, the us and china. in england, 47 trusts reported problems at hospitals, gp surgeries or pharmacies and 13 nhs organisations in scotland were also affected.  some hospitals were forced to cancel treatment and appointments and, unable to use computers, many doctors resorted to using pen and paper.  the cost of the attack is unknown, in the uk or beyond, but bbc analysis of three accounts linked to the ransom demands suggest hackers have already been paid the equivalent of £22,080.  the scottish government said the cyber-attack had been isolated and it expected that most nhs computers would be back to normal by monday. nhs england has told patients to attend hospital if they have an appointment unless they are told not to. however, several trusts in england have issued their own advice to patients. as of sunday night they were: st bartholomew's in london - it disruption ongoing. planned surgery and outpatient appointments will be reduced on monday at the trust's five hospitals - the royal london, newham, whipps cross, mile end and st bartholomew's. patients should attend booked appointments on monday unless their hospital contacts them to say otherwiseeast and north hertfordshire trust - patients should assume their appointment is going ahead unless they hear otherwise. neither lister hospital nor the new qe2 are doing non-urgent blood testsjames paget university hospitals trust, norfolk - all clinical and surgical appointments this weekend were cancelled. patients with appointments on monday and tuesday are being advised to attend unless they hear from their hospital. a&e wait times are longer than usualsouthport and ormskirk hospital nhs trust - problems continuing with it systems. patients scheduled for surgery on monday are being told not to attend unless they are contacted. all outpatient and endoscopy appointments for monday are cancelledlincolnshire hospitals nhs trust - outpatient appointments, diagnostic tests and routine operations are cancelled on mondayyork teaching hospitals nhs trust - services are "almost back to normal" albeit a little slower so patients can assume their appointments on monday will go aheadwrightington, wigan and leigh - people are told to avoid a&e unless it is an emergency. the trust is working to restore its it systems the government is insisting that the nhs had been repeatedly warned about the cyber-threat to their it systems.  defence secretary michael fallon said £50m of £1.9bn set aside for uk cyber-protection was being spent on nhs cyber systems to improve their security. but labour say the conservatives have cut funding to the nhs's it budget and specifically a contract to protect computer systems was not renewed after 2015. the liberal democrats and labour have both demanded an inquiry into the cyber-attack.  in an interview on bbc one's andrew marr show, sir michael said nhs trusts had been encouraged to "reduce their exposure to the weakest system, the windows xp", with fewer than 5% of trusts using it now.  "we want them to use modern systems that are better protected. we warned them, and they were warned again in the spring. they were warned again of the threats," he added. shadow health secretary jonathan ashworth has written to health secretary jeremy hunt to ask why concerns repeatedly flagged up about the nhs's "outdated, unsupported and vulnerable" machines had not been addressed. on itv's robert peston, mr ashworth accused the government of having "cut the it and infrastructure budget" by £1bn in the nhs, and said his party, if elected to power, would put £10bn into the infrastructure of the nhs. he called for the conservatives to publish the department of health's risk register to see how seriously they were taking it threats. scottish justice secretary michael matheson said more than 120 public bodies were being contacted to ensure their defences were adequate. kingsley manning, a former chairman of nhs digital - which provides the health service's it systems - told the bbc on saturday that several hundred thousand computers were still running on windows xp. and a neurology registrar from london, dr krishna chinthapalli, wrote an article for the british medical journal just a week ago, warning that hospitals would "almost certainly be shut down by  ransomware  this year". he told the bbc the nhs was in a tricky position - treating sick patients, as a 24/7 operation with specialist software - making update implementation complicated.  "people developing  ransomware  know a hospital is a good target because the information is about patients and is time-sensitive - hospitals need to get their data back quicker," he said.  attacks on hospital data and patients were "despicable at the basic level", he said. meanwhile, digital rights campaigners open rights group has accused gchq of a "very dangerous strategy of hoarding knowledge of security problems". it said britain's electronic surveillance agency was "in charge of hacking us and protecting us from hackers", making it hard to balance the risks of keeping vulnerabilities secret. jim killock, the group's executive director, said: "us and uk security agencies kept a widespread vulnerability secret rather than telling the companies so they could fix it." he called for the national cyber security centre to be made independent from gchq. it's unlikely. europol head rob wainwright said he was concerned that the number affected would continue to rise when people returned to work on monday morning. he told the bbc there was an escalating threat from the computer-virus , known as wanna decryptor or  ransomware , adding: "we've never seen anything like this - it's unprecedented in scale." get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning are you a patient or an nhs employee? are you still being affected by the cyber attack and its aftermath? share your story with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also contact us in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7555 173285  send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.ukupload your pictures / video heretweet: @bbc_haveyoursaytext an sms or mms to 61124 (uk) or +44 7624 800 100 (international) a uk security researcher has told the bbc how he "accidentally" halted the spread of the malicious  ransomware  that has affected hundreds of organisations, including the uk's nhs. the 22-year-old man, known by the pseudonym  malware tech, had taken a week off work, but decided to investigate the  ransomware  after hearing about the global cyber-attack. he managed to bring the spread to a halt when he found what appeared to be a "kill switch" in the rogue software's code. "it was actually partly accidental," he told the bbc, after spending the night investigating. "i have not slept a wink." although his discovery did not repair the damage done by the  ransomware , it did stop it spreading to new computers, and he has been hailed an "accidental hero". "i would say that's correct," he told the bbc. cyber-attack scale 'unprecedented' nhs 'robust' after cyber-attack "the attention has been slightly overwhelming. the boss gave me another week off to make up for this train-wreck of a vacation." the researcher first noticed that the  malware  was trying to contact a specific web address every time it infected a new computer. but the web address it was trying to contact - a long jumble of letters - had not been registered.  malware tech decided to register it, and bought it for $10.69 (£8).  owning it would let him see where computers were accessing it from, and give him an idea of how widespread the  ransomware  was. by doing so, he unexpectedly triggered part of the  ransomware 's code that told it to stop spreading. analysis: how did it start? what is the  ransomware ? this type of code is known as a "kill switch", which some attackers use to halt the spread of their software if things get out of hand.  he tested his discovery and was delighted when he managed to trigger the  ransomware  on demand. "now you probably can't picture a grown man jumping around with the excitement of having just been ' ransomware d', but this was me," he said in a blog post.  malware tech now thinks the code was originally designed to thwart researchers trying to investigate the  ransomware , but it backfired by letting them remotely disable it. while the registration of the web address appears to have stopped one strain of the  ransomware  spreading from device-to-device, it does not repair computers that are already infected.  security experts have also warned that new variants of the  malware  that ignore the "kill switch" will appear. "this variant shouldn't be spreading any further, however there'll almost certainly be copycats," said security researcher troy hunt in a blog post.  malware tech warned: "we have stopped this one, but there will be another one coming and it will not be stoppable by us. "there's a lot of money in this, there is no reason for them to stop. it's not much effort for them to change the code and start over." nhs services across england and scotland have been hit by a large-scale cyber-attack that has disrupted hospital and gp appointments. the prime minister said the incident was part of an untargeted wider attack affecting organisations globally. some hospitals and gps have been unable to access patient data, after their computers were locked by a  ransomware  program demanding a payment worth £230. but there is no evidence patient data has been compromised, nhs digital said. the bbc understands about 40 nhs organisations and some gp practices have been hit. the nhs in wales and northern ireland has not been affected. there is no indication of who is behind the attack yet, but the hackers demanded their payment in the virtual currency bitcoin, which is harder to trace.  prime minister theresa may said: "this is not targeted at the nhs, it's an international attack and a number of countries and organisations have been affected." mrs may added that the national cyber security centre (ncsc) was "working closely" with the nhs "to ensure that they support the organisations concerned and that they protect patient safety". ambulances have been diverted from hospitals in some areas and there has been disruption at some gp surgeries as a result of the attack. nhs england said patients in an emergency should go to a&e or access emergency services as they normally would. dr anne rainsberry, nhs incident director, added: "more widely, we ask people to use the nhs wisely while we deal with this major incident, which is still ongoing." who has been hit by the nhs cyber attack?explaining the global  malware  outbreak a massive  ransomware  campaign appears to have attacked a number of organisations around the world, with reports of infections in more than 70 countries. telefonica, the spanish telecoms company which owns mobile network o2, said it had detected a "cybersecurity incident" but that clients and services had not been affected. screenshots of a program that locks computers and demands a payment in bitcoin have been shared online by those affected. nhs digital said the attack was believed to have been carried out by the  malware  variant wanna decryptor. "our focus is on supporting organisations to manage the incident swiftly and decisively, but we will continue to communicate with nhs colleagues and will share more information as it becomes available," it said. there could be a lot of reasons why the nhs was hit so hard by this attack. the most likely one is because it is a huge organisation supported by a massive it infrastructure.  it also has lots of partners and suppliers that connect to its core network. complexity is the enemy of security and it is a fair bet that some bits of that network, especially those operated by suppliers, are not as well maintained as they should be.  this could mean that patches that would have thwarted  ransomware  were not applied. so, as soon as the worm got in, it could run rampant. dr chris mimnagh, who works at a medical centre in liverpool, said the attack had made its job impossible. "our entire patient record is accessed through the computer - blood results, history, medicines.  "most of our prescribing is done electronically... it's sent direct to the pharmacy and... all that is not able to be accessed when we lose the clinical system." dr emma fardon, a gp in dundee, said she had returned from house visits to find a message on the surgery's computers asking for money. "we can't access any patient records. everything is fully computerised," she said. "we have no idea what drugs people are on or the allergies they have. we can't access the appointments system."  dr afzal ashraf, an expert on cyber-security who has previously worked as an adviser to the government, told the bbc it was likely that the  malware  was spreading when nhs services shared documents and information.  but he also said he thought it was unlikely the attackers had deliberately targeted the nhs.  he added: "i think they probably attacked a small company assuming they would get a small amount of money but it's got into the nhs system and now they have the full power of the state against them - because obviously the government cannot afford for this sort of thing to happen and be successful." get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning nhs services across england have been hit by it failure, believed to be caused by a large-scale cyber-attack thought to be caused by software called  ransomware .robert schifreen, a former computer hacker and now the editor of the it safety website security smart, explains how  ransomware  attacks happen. petya  ransomware  victims can now unlock infected computers without paying. an unidentified programmer has produced a tool that exploits shortfalls in the way the  malware   encryption  a file that allows windows to start up. in notes put on code-sharing site github, he said he had produced the key generator to help his father-in-law unlock his petya- encryption  computer. the  malware , which started circulating in large numbers in march, demands a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265).  it hid itself in documents attached to emails purporting to come from people looking for work.  security researcher lawrence abrams, from the bleeping computer news site, said the key generator could unlock a petya- encryption  computer in seven seconds.  but the key generator requires victims to extract some information from specific memory locations on the infected drive.  and mr abrams said: "unfortunately, for many victims extracting this data is not an easy task."  this would probably involve removing the drive and then connecting it up to another computer-virus -free computer running windows, he said. another tool can then extract the data, which can be used on the website set up to help people unlock their computer. independent security analyst graham cluley said there had been other occasions when  ransomware  makers had "bungled" their  encryption  system.  ransomware , linux.encoder and one other  ransomware  variant were all rendered harmless when their scrambling schemes were reverse-engineered. "of course," said mr cluley, "the best thing is to have safety secured backups rather than relying upon  ransomware  criminals goofing up." the fbi is seeking help from us firms as it investigates a nasty strain of  ransomware , reuters reports.   ransomware   encryption  data on infected machines and then asks for money before restoring access to information. the fbi is analysing a strain of  ransomware  called msil/samas that tries to encryption data across entire networks rather than single computers. the plea comes as security firms warn about other novel strains of the fast-growing, data-scrambling cyber-threats.  the fbi sent out the request for help after discovering that the group behind msil/samas had stepped up its efforts to find victims.  in the confidential advisory obtained by reuters, the fbi said the group used a publicly available security program called jexboss to scan networks looking for vulnerable versions of the widely used jboss software. when a vulnerable system is found, the  malware  launches an attack that seeks to scramble data on servers. it also finds and deletes the back-up files firms could use to restore data scrambled by  ransomware .  cisco said it had seen a "widespread campaign" using samas targeting firms involved in healthcare. early versions of the  malware  charged a ransom of one bitcoin (£300) for every machine hit but later versions upped this to 1.5 bitcoins.  "it is likely the  malware  author is trying to see how much people will pay for their files," wrote cisco security analyst nick biasini in an advisory. "they even added an option for bulk decryption of 22 bitcoin (£6,600) to decrypt all infected systems." the fbi's request for aid comes as security firms warn about recently created  ransomware  variants that use different methods to lock up systems and force victims to pay. the petya  malware  targets a key windows system file called the master boot record that helps a pc get started. by overwriting this file, people are prevented from getting at any data on their pc unless they pay up. trend micro said it had seen petya distributed in email messages crafted to look like they are from someone looking for work. the cv attached to the message is a booby-trapped program that launches petya, said trend security engineer jasen sumalapao in a blogpost. petya charges a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265) to unlock infected machines.  security firm carbon black has found another novel strain that goes after many firms that use windows powershell - a scripting program widely used to administer machines running windows.  dubbed powerware, this strain hides malicious code in word documents and calls on powershell to execute the attack code when the booby-trapped files are opened. "deceptively simple in code, 'powerware' is a novel approach to  ransomware , reflecting a growing trend of  malware  authors thinking outside the box in delivering  ransomware ," said rico valdez from carbon black. the government of licking county in the us has taken many of its computer and telephone systems offline as it tries to tackle a  ransomware  infection.  ransomware  is a type of computer  malware  that scrambles data and demands a fee for it to be restored. citizens have been told they must visit government offices to do tasks usually completed online or by phone. the county commissioner told local media that he was taking advice from cybersecurity experts and the fbi. licking county, which is in ohio, has about 170,000 residents.  the local government says it has about 1,000 computers and 12 servers, which have been taken offline making many government websites inaccessible. many of the county's public services, including the emergency services, have resorted to working in "manual mode" without their computers, to prevent the  malware  being spread to more devices. residents are still able to call 911 in an emergency but the process may take longer than usual. "it's slower than we'd like," sean grady, director of the licking county emergency management agency, told the newark advocate. "it takes us back 25 years in how we dispatch. we ask more detailed questions." county commissioner tim bubb said the  malware  was a "crime against the people of licking county" but added that the government had not been specifically targeted. "clearly, it's designed to make money for somebody. it was just our unlucky day," he said. some variants of  ransomware  have previously been defeated, with removal instructions now available online. however, security experts warn that in some cases the only way to get data back is by restoring from a back-up. mr bubb said he was exploring that option, but did not know how long it would take for computer systems to be back online. "we're evaluating our back-ups. we think our back-ups are pretty darn good," he said. chinese hackers are launching sophisticated  ransomware  attacks - in which they hijack machines and demand payment to decrypt them, according to reports. four separate security firms have spotted attacks they believe emanated from china in recent months, reveals reuters. there is speculation that the "skilled operators" could be state-sponsored hackers. the chinese government said it would investigate if there was reliable proof. dell secureworks investigated two  ransomware  attacks this year - one at a transportation company and one at a technology firm in the second case, 30% of the unnamed firm's machines were captured by the hackers. phil burdette, who heads an incident response team at dell said: "it is obviously a group of skilled operators that have some amount of experience conducting intrusions." security firms attack research, inguardians and g-c partners said they had investigated three other similar attacks since december. a chinese foreign ministry spokesman told reuters that it would not act on "rumours and speculation" but the ministry itself said that if there was reliable proof, it would treat the matter seriously. the chinese government pledged to oppose economic espionage in an agreement with the us last year, with some us firms since reporting a drop in the amount of hacking sourced from china. it also wants deeper internet security co-operation with the us as hacking continues to be a sore spot in us-china relations. if the government has reduced its support for economic espionage, that may mean hackers are looking for other means of supplementing their incomes, reports reuters. recently security firms warned about a huge surge in junk mail messages containing  ransomware , which was blamed on new  malware  hitting the market which can avoid being spotted by anti-virus software.  ransomware  has been around for years but better  encryption  techniques mean it is often impossible for victims to regain access to their files without co-operation from the hackers. many  ransomware  payments are made in the virtual currency bitcoin, and few firms are open about such attacks. on this week's tech tent - your weekly status update on the technology business - we have three stories reflecting our current anxieties about the nature of our digital world. we'll discuss the biggest cybersecurity threat of the moment, the use of malicious-bot  in the fight to get the upper hand on social media during the us elections and the ongoing debate about the risks of artificial intelligence. this week, producer jat gill and i attended a demo by security firm sophos which left us both rather scared. james lyne from the firm played a bad guy launching an attack on a company, while two colleagues played the increasingly confused system administrators trying to work out what was going on as chaos engulfed the network. we then heard that the principle weapon in the attackers' armoury was now  ransomware . this is  malware  that first takes over your network, then  encryption  all your files before demanding a ransom - usually in bitcoin - to unlock them. this is now proving a major threat to organisations from hospitals to police forces - we don't know the exact scale of the problem because it seems many quietly pay up without telling anybody. what's really scary is that some of this  ransomware  is now out there on the internet but without any way of even paying the criminals behind it, who have long since moved on. that means there is no way of unlocking your  encryption  files. so what's to be done? james lyne tells us that companies which regularly update their security systems should be safe - but the most important advice is to make regular back-ups of your files, and make sure they are insulated from the rest of your network. computational propaganda is the term  professor philip howard of oxford university  uses to describe his research project. he is on this week's show talking about his study of twitter activity during the presidential debates.  his research - which has not yet been peer reviewed - appears to show that many more automated accounts are being used to tweet in support of donald trump than the malicious-bot  backing hillary clinton. during british election campaigns i get bombarded with reports from sentiment analysis firms, claiming they can mine twitter to understand who is winning over voters. those claims always seemed dubious - even more so, now that it appears that expertise in running malicious-bot  is becoming the prime weapon in social media campaigning. at a period  when new advances in artificial intelligence seem to be reported every day, the ethical issues surrounding its impact on our lives are rising up the agenda.  this week saw the opening of an ai think tank,  the centre for the future of intelligence, in cambridge with prof stephen hawking renewing his warnings that the technology could bring extraordinary benefits to mankind - but could also spell the end for us. then on thursday night i took part in a cambridge union debate opposing the motion: "this house fears the rise of artificial intelligence". i'm afraid to report that our side lost - and fear won - though all the speakers agreed we needed a more nuanced view of ai. and that's what we get on friday's programme from one of the pioneers of artificial intelligence research in the uk, prof margaret boden. she tells us to stop worrying about some apocalypse that is a very remote danger but start thinking about the ethics of using robots to care for the elderly. listen to tech tent on fridays at 15:00 gmt (16:00 bst) on bbc world service or catch the podcast here.. the parents of a british cyber-security expert arrested on hacking charges in america, have spoken of their faith in the us judicial system. marcus hutchins, from devon, denies six charges relating to kronos,  malware  that gathered financial information from infected computers. the 23-year-old's parents, des and janet hutchins, said they "have no doubt that marcus will be seen as an innocent party". his trial is scheduled for october.  more on cyber-defender family and other devon stories speaking publicly for the first time since the arrest, des hutchins, from ilfracombe in devon, said in a joint statement: "janet and i have full confidence in the united states judicial system.  "once all the evidence is available we have no doubt that marcus will be seen as an innocent party." he continued: "our family is grateful for everyone's messages of support, and their belief in his values, as he tries to clear his name." "we hope people will understand that we can make no further comment at this time. marcus's case is in the hands of his lawyers," he added. marcus hutchins appeared in court in milwaukee, wisconsin, earlier this week, after which  he was allowed to continue working, and to access the internet. he shot to fame after helping to stall the  ransomware   ransomware  cyber-attack that struck the nhs and affected many other organisations around the world in may. he was arrested at las vegas airport by the fbi as he tried to fly home from the def con hacking conference. the defendant is not allowed to the leave the country and is expected to live in los angeles, where his employer kryptos logic, is based. a canadian university has paid hackers to restore access to data they had turned into the digital equivalent of gibberish. the university of calgary transferred 20,000 canadian dollars-worth of bitcoins ($15,780; £10,840) after it was unable to unwind damage caused by a type of attack known as  ransomware . the  malware  caused emails and other files to become  encryption . one expert warned that the payout would encourage further blackmail attempts. the move comes the same week intel warned that  ransomware  infections were spreading at "an alarming rate". more than 120 separate strains exist, many of which are frequently updated, making it difficult for security experts to offer a solution. the university of calgary told a local newspaper that more than 100 of its computers had been affected since it was attacked last month. "the university is now in the process of assessing and evaluating the decryption keys," said the university's vice president linda dalgetty. "the actual process of decryption is time-consuming and must be performed with care.  "it is important to note that decryption keys do not automatically restore all systems or guarantee the recovery of all data." she added that the local police force was investigating the matter. the university follows other high-profile bodies to have met cybercriminals' demands in recent weeks. in february, the hollywood presbyterian medical center paid $17,000 to restore access to its system. at the end of the same month, melrose police department in massachusetts paid $450 after it fell victim to a similar attack. "it's very tempting for organisations to pay out the ransom because that might be the only way they can get their data back, but that makes it worse for everyone else because it encourages more people to set up schemes like the one used in the calgary case," commented dr steven murdoch from university college london. "it would be better if nobody ever paid, although that's unrealistic to expect. "what's making matters worse is a new trend. "the hackers are threatening to publicly publish information they found on your computers if you refuse to pay, which acts as a double incentive to comply." the university of calgary has said there was no indication that "any personal or other university data was released to the public". london's hackney council says it has been hit by "a serious cyber-attack" which is affecting its it systems. services may be "unavailable" and people should only contact the council "if absolutely necessary", it tweeted. officials are working with the uk national cyber security centre to investigate the hack. in february, another local authority - redcar and cleveland borough council - said it had been hit by a  ransomware  attack, which cost it more than £10m. hackney's mayor has only shared scant details of what is involved in its case so far. "this investigation is at an early stage, and limited information is currently available," he posted.  "our focus is on continuing to deliver essential frontline services, especially to our most vulnerable residents, and protecting data, while restoring affected services as soon as possible. in the meantime, some council services may be unavailable or slower than normal." a spokesperson for the national cyber security centre said: "the ncsc is supporting the organisation and working with partners to understand the impact of this incident."  ransomware  attacks are a growing problem for public services, from councils to hospitals.  in such attacks, hackers take control of computer systems and data and demand payments in order to unlock them. the alternative is for councils is to rebuild systems from scratch via back-ups.  universities and colleges are being warned by the uk's cyber-security agency that rising numbers of cyber-attacks are threatening to disrupt the start of term. the national cyber security centre has issued an alert after a recent spike in attacks on educational institutions. these have been " ransomware " incidents which block access to computer systems. paul chichester, the ncsc's director of operations, says such attacks are "reprehensible". the return to school, college and university, already facing problems with covid-19, now faces an increased risk from cyber-attacks, which the security agency says could "de-rail their preparations for the new term". the cyber-security body, part of the gchq intelligence agency, says attacks can have a "devastating impact" and take weeks or months to put right. newcastle university and northumbria have both been targeted by cyber-attacks this month, and a group of further education colleges in yorkshire and a higher education college in lancashire faced attacks last month. newcastle university faces cyber-attacknorthumbria university hit by cyber-attackuk universities in blackbaud attackleeds college group under cyber-attackhackers beat university cyber-defences in two hoursstudents blamed for college cyber-attacks the warning from the ncsc follows a spate of  ransomware  attacks against academic institutions - in which  malware  or " malware " is used to lock out users from their own computer systems, paralysing online services, websites and phone networks. the security agency says this is often followed by a ransom note demanding payment for the recovery of this frozen or stolen data - sometimes with the added threat of publicly releasing sensitive information. universities have frequently been targets of cyber-attacks - with up to a thousand attacks per year in the uk.  attacks can be attempts to obtain valuable research information that is commercially and politically sensitive. universities also hold much personal data about students, staff and, in some cases, former students who might have made donations. earlier this summer more than 20 universities and charities in the uk, us and canada were caught up in a  ransomware  cyber-attack involving a cloud computing supplier, blackbaud. a freedom of information inquiry in july, carried out by the topline comms digital public relations company, found 35 uk universities, out of 105 responses, had faced  ransomware  attacks over the past decade. there were 25 which had not had attacks - and a further 43 which declined to answer. one university reported 42 separate  ransomware  attacks since 2013. the warning from the ncsc highlights the vulnerability of online systems for remote working, as increased numbers of staff are working from home.  " phishing " attacks, where people are tricked into clicking on a malicious link such as in an email, also remains a common pathway for such  ransomware  attempts, says the advice. mr chichester of the ncsc says: "the criminal targeting of the education sector, particularly at such a challenging time, is utterly reprehensible." "i would strongly urge all academic institutions to take heed of our alert." universities uk says data security has had to become a priority for higher education - and that "protections are in place to manage threats as much as possible". the universities body also says it is working with the ncsc to produce "robust guidance on cyber-security" which will be released later this academic year. a cyber-attack that has hit 150 countries since friday should be treated by governments around the world as a "wake-up call", microsoft says. it blamed governments for storing data on software vulnerabilities which could then be accessed by hackers. it says the latest computer-virus  exploits a flaw in microsoft windows identified by, and stolen from, us intelligence. there are fears of more " ransomware " attacks as people begin work on monday, although few have been reported so far. live reports:  ransomware  cyber-attack fallout should you pay the  ransomware  ransom? many firms have had experts working over the weekend to prevent new infections. the computer-virus  took control of users' files and demanded $300 (£230) payments to restore access. the spread of the  ransomware   ransomware  attack slowed over the weekend but the respite might only be brief, experts have said. more than 200,000 computers have been affected so far. read more: is my computer at risk?blogger halts  ransomware  'by accident'how roots can be traced to the uswho is hardest hit? bbc analysis of three accounts linked to the ransom demands suggests about $38,000 (£29,400) had been paid by monday morning. however, the  ransomware  warning said that the cost would double after three days, so the payments may increase. it threatens to delete files within seven days if no payment is made. the effect in asian nations so far on monday has been limited. south korea said just nine cases of  ransomware  had been found, giving no further details. australian officials said so far only three small-to-medium sized businesses had reported being locked out of their systems while new zealand's ministry of business said a small number of unconfirmed incidents were being investigated. in japan, both nissan and hitachi reported some units had been affected, while in china energy giant petrochina said that at some petrol stations customers had been unable to use its payment system. a statement from microsoft president and chief legal officer brad smith on sunday criticised the way governments store up information about security flaws in computer systems. "we have seen vulnerabilities stored by the cia show up on wikileaks, and now this vulnerability stolen from the nsa has affected customers around the world," he wrote. "an equivalent scenario with conventional weapons would be the us military having some of its tomahawk missiles stolen." he added: "the governments of the world should treat this attack as a wake-up call." the organisation also said that many organisations had failed to keep their systems up to date, allowing the computer-virus  to spread. microsoft said it had released a windows security update in march to tackle the problem involved in the latest attack, but many users were yet to run it. "as cybercriminals become more sophisticated, there is simply no way for customers to protect themselves against threats unless they update their systems," mr smith said. there are going to be some tough questions on monday for those institutions which didn't do enough to keep their networks secure, as well as the organisations that were best placed to stop it happening in the first place - the nsa and microsoft. the nsa keeps a chest of cyberweapons to itself so it can hit targets, but microsoft has long argued that this is dangerous. if there is a flaw in windows, the company said, surely the safest thing to do is to let its team know straight away so it can be fixed. but then microsoft also needs to consider what obligation it has to update all users - not just the ones who pay extra for security on older systems.  updating your computer if you're an individual is a piece of cake, but for a network the size of britain's national health service? tough - time-consuming, expensive and complex.  for a company like microsoft to say it won't keep those systems safe unless they shell out more money, then that in itself is something of a ransom. meanwhile europol's chief told the bbc the  ransomware  was designed to allow "infection of one computer to quickly spread across the networks", adding: "that's why we're seeing these numbers increasing all the time." although a temporary fix earlier slowed the infection rate, the attackers had now released a new version of the computer-virus , he said. a uk security researcher known as " malware tech", who helped to limit the  ransomware  attack, predicted "another one coming... quite likely on monday".  malware tech, whose name was revealed in uk media to be 22-year-old marcus hutchins, was hailed as an "accidental hero" after registering a domain name to track the spread of the computer-virus , which actually ended up halting it. becky pinkard, from digital shadows, a uk-based cyber-security firm, told afp news agency that it would be easy for the initial attackers or "copy-cat authors" to change the computer-virus  code so it is difficult to guard against. "even if a fresh attack does not materialise on monday, we should expect it soon afterwards," she said. in england, 48 national health service (nhs) trusts reported problems at hospitals, doctor surgeries or pharmacies, and 13 nhs organisations in scotland were also affected. further attacks feared on uk health system ransomware  and the nhs - the inquest begins other organisations targeted worldwide included germany's rail network deutsche bahn, spanish telecommunications operator telefonica, french carmaker renault, us logistics giant fedex and russia's interior ministry.  get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning european police agency europol is teaming up with cybersecurity companies in an initiative aimed at slowing an "exponential" rise in  ransomware . the scheme revolves around a website that connects victims and police, gives advice and helps with data recovery. the number of  ransomware  victims tripled in the first three months of 2016, according to one estimate.  ransomware  is  malware  that typically demands a fee to unscramble important data on a compromised device. the no more ransom site will be updated as  ransomware  gangs are tackled, one of the project's partners said. co-ordinated by europol, the initiative also involves the dutch national police, intel security and kaspersky labs.  "for a few years now  ransomware  has become a dominant concern for eu law enforcement," said wil van gemert, europol's deputy director of operations.  "we expect to help many people to recover control over their files, while raising awareness and educating the population on how to maintain their devices clean from  malware ."   no more ransom brings together information about what  ransomware  is, how to avoid falling victim and what to do if a person or company is caught out. "right now the only option victims have is to pay the ransom or not," said raj samani, european head of intel security. "this gives people another option." often, people struggle to find out what they can do when they are hit. with this website, victims will be able to upload scrambled files to identify which strain of  ransomware  has locked up their data, he said. "we've seen a threefold increase in infected victims from january to march this year," he added. "and we're seeing a rise in new families of  ransomware  coming up all the time." in june, one site that tracks  ransomware  logged more than 120 separate families of the malicious code being used in different campaigns.  "it's becoming a hugely profitable economy for the criminals," said mr samani. "they know there's real money to be made here. "what's particularly telling is that historically  ransomware  victims have been consumers and small businesses," he said. "but we are now seeing bigger institutions, hospitals and universities, getting hit." the site will be kept up to date with information gleaned from international action against gangs that run  ransomware  campaigns, mr samani said.  other police forces, security companies and researchers will be encouraged to contribute to the site and add advice or tools to help victims.  at present, the site links to decryption software for four well-known families of  ransomware  - coinvault, shade, rannoh and rakhni. the it systems of three us hospitals have been infected with  ransomware , which  encryption  vital files and demands money to unlock them. the systems, at kentucky methodist hospital, chino valley medical center and desert valley hospital, california, are now running normally again. none of the hospitals is believed to have paid the ransom. and the cases are now being investigated by the fbi. the kentucky methodist hospital had to shut down all of its desktop computers and activate a back-up system. a message on its homepage said: "methodist hospital is currently working in an internal state of emergency due to a  computer-virus  that has limited our use of electronic web-based services.  "we are currently working to resolve this issue, until then we will have limited access to web-based services and electronic communications." it later said no patient data or care had been affected.  fred ortega, a spokesman for prime healthcare services, which owns chino valley medical center and desert valley hospital, said: "it did cause significant disruptions of our it systems.  "however, most of the systems and the critical infrastructure has been brought back online." the attack comes weeks after it was revealed hollywood presbyterian medical centre in los angeles had been attacked by  ransomware .  in that case, it paid $17,000 to get access to files back. kentucky methodist hospital information systems director jamie reid named the  malware  involved as locky, a new bug that  encryption  files, documents and images and renames them with the extension .locky. the most common way locky gets itself on machines is via a spam email with an attached document that looks like nonsense and advises readers to enable macros "if the data encoding is incorrect". once the  malware  is downloaded, it sends a message to desktops with instructions about how users can pay to have files unlocked. in november, a report from intel's mcafee labs said the number of  ransomware  attacks was expected to grow in 2016. security expert brian krebs said: "it's a fair bet that as  ransomware  attacks and attackers mature, these schemes will slowly become more targeted. "i also worry that these more deliberate attackers will take a bit more time to discern how much the data they've  encryption  is really worth, and precisely how much the victim might be willing to pay to get it back." security firms are warning about a sudden "huge" surge in junk mail messages containing  ransomware . the surge is being blamed on the group behind a novel strain of  ransomware  called locky. one security firm reported that a version of locky produced two weeks ago is now the second most prevalent form of  ransomware  it sees. the us, france and japan were the top targets for the gang behind locky, statistics suggested. like many other  ransomware  programs, locky  encryption  data on an infected machine and then asks for a payment before providing a decryption key. currently locky asks for 3 bitcoins (£885) as payment.  the first versions of locky hid the malicious attachment that did the  encryption  in add-ons or macros for microsoft word. now, say security firms, its creators have switched to using attachments written in javascript. "we are currently seeing extraordinary (sic) huge volumes of javascript attachments being spammed out," said rodel mendrez, a security expert at trustwave in a blogpost.  the switch to javascript has helped locky avoid being spotted by anti-virus software, said trustwave.  at peak spamming times, wrote mr mendrez, about 200,000 messages an hour carrying  ransomware  attachments were hitting its junk mail spotting servers.  security firm fortinet said it had caught almost 19 million copies of  ransomware  emails over the last two weeks. the latest version of locky using the javascript attachment accounted for 16.5% of this total, said roland dela paz in a blogpost.  the most prevalent  ransomware  family in that total was cryptowall which was found in 83.5% of the  ransomware  emails it had caught. cryptowall first appeared in early 2014. the spam surge had helped establish locky as a "significant presence" in the  ransomware  world, said mr dela paz. the attackers sending out large amounts of locky spam were using the same network of hijacked computers, known as a  malicious-bot , that was used to distribute the dridex banking  spyware .  "it's the same  malicious-bot , different day, and different payload," said mr mendrez.  to avoid falling victim, people and companies should regularly back up data so it can be restored if a machine gets infected, he said. security researchers have discovered a new strain of  ransomware  coded entirely in javascript, which could increase its chances of being activated. unlike executable program files, javascript documents do not always trigger a security warning on windows or require administrator access to run. named raa, the  malware  is disguised as a document and starts  encryption  files immediately when opened. one security expert said the approach was likely to fool many victims. "it's an interesting approach to  ransomware ," said ken munro of security company pen test partners. "using javascript as an attachment to an email is likely to result in many victims accidentally installing it." the raa  ransomware  was discovered by security researchers known as benkow and jameswt. it is sent to victims by email and if opened on a windows machine uses the "windows based script host" to run its code. typically an executable program such as an .exe or .bat file would be automatically screened and blocked by the operating system, but windows allows .js files to run. if opened, the  ransomware  sets about  encryption  the victim's files and displays a ransom note written in russian. it demands a fee of $250 (£171) for the files to be restored. in april, microsoft reported that it had seen an increase in  malware  being spread through javascript email attachments. "it is interesting to note that an office attachment with malicious macros typically requires two or more clicks on the document to run it. one click to open the document and another click to enable the macros," the firm said in a blog post. "on the other hand, the javascript attachments only take one or two clicks to start executing." mr munro said people should avoid opening attachments from unknown sources to stay safe. "the .js (javascript) file type is automatically blocked in some email packages, particularly outlook," said mr munro. "but interestingly gmail doesn't appear to block it. don't open unknown attachments, particularly those with a .js extension. "while we're there, don't open macro enabled office docs either (such as .docm and .xlsm files) - and keep your anti-virus right up to date." additionally, windows can be instructed not to start the "windows based script host" when a .js file is double-clicked. computer-virus  blog bleeping computer reports that there is currently no way to reverse the raa  encryption  without paying the ransom.   often, restoring files from a back-up copy is the only way to get files back without paying - although some examples of  ransomware  have been cracked. eleven of scotland's 14 nhs health boards have been hit by a cyber-attack linked to it attacks around the world. the only boards not to be affected are lothian, orkney and shetland. the first minister chaired a meeting of the scottish government's resilience committee on friday evening to review the situation. a second meeting is planned for 07:00 on saturday. nicola sturgeon said the government was taking immediate steps "to minimise the impact on patients".  the health boards which have been affected are: nhs glasgownhs lanakrshirenhs dumfries and gallowaynhs forth valleynhs taysidenhs western islesnhs bordersnhs fifenhs ayrshire and arrannhs grampiannhs highland the scottish ambulance service has also been affected. the incidents are thought to be part of a wider attack affecting organisations around the world. nhs cyber-attack - latest updates  ransomware  infections reported worldwide the scottish government said most incidents had been confined to desktop computers in gp surgeries, dental practices and other primary care centres. a spokesman said the only acute hospital sites so far affected had been in nhs lanarkshire. first minister nicola sturgeon said there was "no evidence" that patient data had been compromised. she said: "all necessary steps are being taken to ensure that the cause and nature of this attack is identified. "our priority is to ensure that boards get all the support required to identify the full extent of any problems, and return it systems to normal as soon as possible, so there is as little impact on patient care as possible. "i would like to thank all of the nhs staff who are continuing to work hard to ensure that the impact of this attack is kept to an absolute minimum.  "i have complete confidence that they will continue to provide the excellent care for which they are famous." dr emma fardon, a gp in dundee, told the bbc: "it became very obvious at around 1pm. i came back from house visits to find all our computers hit by the computer-virus . "it was the red display asking for the money.  we can't access any patient records.  "everything is fully computerised. we have no idea what drugs people are on or the allergies they have. we can't access the appointments system. "we've had to try and phone as many people to rearrange their appointments to next week. "it's had a massively disruptive effect. we can't process any documents, can't issue prescriptions, or look up results. "we're trying to accommodate who we can. we are still seeing people who really need it. "we've had glitches in the past but i've never seen anything as bad as this. we've no idea how long it will last for." nhs lanarkshire closed down its non-essential it network and urged patients only to attend a&e in an emergency. the board said in a statement: "nhs lanarkshire, along with other boards across the uk, is currently experiencing  ransomware  attack to its it network. "it specialists are working to resolve the matter as quickly as possible. "as a precaution, nhs lanarkshire is closing down its non-essential networked it systems on a temporary basis. "all our sites remain open, however, we are appealing to members of the public only to attend hospital for emergency treatment during this period." frances dodd, nurse director for acute services at nhs lanarkshire tweeted a message calling for public support. she said: "we are working very hard to resolve this situation as quickly as possible and return our systems to normal as quickly as possible. "but we would urge the support of the public at this time to really help us in trying to mitigate and reduce the risk." she also told bbc scotland that staff were unable to access patients' medical histories, so urged anyone going into north lanarkshire's wishaw, monklands and hairmyres hospitals this weekend to take all their medication with them. nhs greater glasgow and clyde said four gp practices had experienced disruption to their it systems but elsewhere it was unaffected. nhs tayside said 10 gp practices in the region, which were not using an nhs tayside it system, were having problems. a spokeswoman said: "no nhs tayside systems or hospital sites have been affected by today's uk-wide cyber attack. there is no impact on nhs tayside's emergency departments or out-of-hours service. "however, we are aware that the it systems at 10 gp practices across tayside, which operate on a non-nhs tayside system, have been affected. our ehealth team is working with the gps to resolve the issue as soon as possible."  by chris baraniuk, bbc technology reporter software that locks a computer and demands payment before allowing access again -  ransomware  - is one of the world's biggest growing cyber-threats. it certainly looks like that is what has hit the nhs in this case - and one it firm says 11 of its nhs customers have been affected. screenshots shared online purportedly from nhs staff, show a program demanding $300 (£230) in bitcoin that looks similar to  ransomware  known as  ransomware ptor or wcry. there's no indication of who is behind the attack yet, nor do we know exactly how it infected nhs systems. but hospitals have been targeted with similar software before - it struck three us hospitals last year. nhs borders said three community sites had been affected. a spokesman said: "the networks have been isolated, software has been shut down and there is no immediate risk to patient care or confidentiality. "all other nhs borders services are currently operating as normal." a spokesman for nhs dumfries and galloway said: "three gp practices have been initially affected and we are taking precautionary measures to prevent any others being affected." he declined the name the practices involved and said the board was "comfortable and confident" with the steps taken but added "we don't know what we're dealing with". he added: "we are monitoring the situation here as are all health boards in scotland." nhs fife said the attack had affected "a small non-operational area" of its system. a spokeswoman said: "this area has been isolated and taken off the network. "staff continue to be able to access patient records and clinical systems are unaffected. it is important to note that out of hours services remain open and available as normal and patient care is unaffected. "we have taken guidance from scottish government on how to protect ourselves from any spread and we are also undertaking further preventative work." western isles health board reported some disruption, though the extent was not clear. nhs forth valley confirmed that some of its services had also been affected. in a statement the health board said: "we can confirm that a small number of gp and dental practices in the forth valley area have experienced disruption to their it systems which may be linked to the wider it issues affecting parts of nhs england.  "steps have been taken to isolate their it systems to minimise the risk of any computer-virus  spreading to other parts of the nhs.  "the practices affected remain open and have put in place contingency arrangements." an nhs western isles spokeswoman said: "we can confirm that we have been affected but can't confirm to what extent at the moment. "we do have systems in place to cover all emergencies." meanwhile, scottishpower said that it had taken measures to ensure its it services were not affected. a spokesman said: "due to an issue at an external company, scottishpower has taken precautionary steps to ensure that our it systems are fully secure. we continue to monitor the situation."  in england, gp surgeries and hospitals in london, blackburn, nottingham, cumbria and hertfordshire were among those whose computer systems were affected. staff were unable to access patient data, which has been  encryption  by  ransomware  that hit nhs networks.  there was no evidence patient data had been compromised. are you a staff or a patient in the nhs? have you been affected by this? if you are willing to do so, share with us by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also contact us in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7555 173285  send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.ukupload your pictures / video heretweet: @bbc_haveyoursaytext an sms or mms to 61124 (uk) or +44 7624 800 100 (international) an initial internal investigation into a cyber attack on a housing firm found no evidence customer or staff data was stolen. flagship group, based in norwich, said the attack took "most of our group's systems offline". it said a suspected  phishing  or  ransomware  attack on 1 november caused "considerable disruption" to staff and customer services.  the firm said other independent investigations were ongoing. the attack was reported to the regulator of social housing, the national cyber security centre (ncsc) and the information commissioner's office (ico). the ncsc and the ico have not yet reported the findings of their investigations. in a statement, flagship said its it systems were now "in a stage of carefully controlled recovery".   the firm said it had also offered fraud and web monitoring services to its customers and staff "for added piece of mind".  flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m. it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk the gang who made the notorious teslacrypt  ransomware  computer-virus  has shut up shop and released the master key it used to scramble data. the key has been used to to make a free decryption tool that can unscramble files  encryption  by the  malware . it means many of those hit by the  malware  will be able to recover data without paying a ransom. it is not yet clear why the gang behind teslacrypt decided to stop using their  malware . the teslacrypt  ransomware  targeted gamers and, on infected machines, sought to encryption more than 185 different types of files associated with popular games such as call of duty, minecraft and world of tanks.  victims could get their files decrypted by paying a ransom of up to $1,000 (£690).  over the past few weeks, researchers from security firm eset noticed that the  malware  was being spammed out far less than usual. many of the underground distributors of teslacrypt were swapping to use a different  ransomware  family called cryptxxx. eset sent a message to the hackers behind teslacrypt via the technical support address given on the payment page the  malware  displays on infected machines. in the message, eset asked for a copy of the master  encryption  key. to its surprise, it got a reply in which the hackers said the project was now "closed". in the body of the short message was the master  encryption  key used to scramble files on infected machines. the message ended: "we are sorry!" in a blogpost, eset said it was "surprised" that the hackers had released the key so others can make a decryption tool. paul ducklin from security firm sophos said it was "unusual" for cyber-thieves to give away their secret key.  "only victims who have been hit recently and haven't yet paid up, or victims who backed up their already- encryption  data "just in case", will get much use out of the master key at this stage," he wrote. mr ducklin speculated about why the hackers had decided to stop sending out their  ransomware . perhaps, he said, the gang had been hacked by rivals who released the key to ruin the business of a competitor. cyber-thieves have turned to web programming languages to create a cheap  ransomware  service.  on infected machines,  ransomware   encryption  data and frees it only when victims pay for it to be unscrambled.  many gangs making  ransomware  keep the code for themselves, but ransom32 is freely downloadable from one dark web site. news site bleepingcomputer said windows users had been targeted by the  malware  over the christmas period.  ransom32 was designed for those that lacked the technological skill to create their own brands of  malware , said bleeping computer editor lawrence abrams.  the malicious program and its administration system are written in html, css and javascript - languages more usually used to create mainstream websites. it is believed to be the first computer-virus  written with these languages. the  malware  can be downloaded from the dark web by anyone who supplies a bitcoin wallet number,  the  malware 's developers take a 25% cut of any ransom collected and forward the rest on to the bitcoin wallet supplied. victims who unwittingly download the  malware  can be locked out of their computers and asked to pay a ransom in bitcoins to get back in.  the  malware  looks for and scrambles a huge variety of files including images, movies, documents and data archives.  those who do not pay up could have their hard drives wiped.  security expert graham cluley told the bbc: "by turning their  ransomware  into a sellable service, the criminals behind ransom32 are providing an opportunity for other hackers to easily launch attacks that will encryption users' documents, including personal photographs, movies and more." "they demand payment via anonymous bitcoin to ensure the safe return of the otherwise unrecoverable data." those who use ransom32 control it via a basic administration panel, that allows them to configure the  malware  to their liking.  the bug's developers even offer them advice on fraud strategies, in one instance suggesting: "don't be too greedy or people will not pay." in a blog post, fabian wosar of security company emsisoft said users' best line of defence was "a solid" strategy for backing up files. that way, should the worst happen, they can recover data without having to pay the ransom.  mr cluley added: "presently, the attack appears to have been distributed via email, so once again users are advised to exercise great caution over what they run on their computers - especially if it arrives via unsolicited email." a widely distributed scam email that quoted people's postal addresses links to a dangerous form of  ransomware , according to a security researcher. andrew brandt, of us firm blue coat, contacted the bbc after hearing an episode of bbc radio 4's you and yours that discussed the  phishing  scam. mr brandt discovered that the emails linked to  ransomware  called maktub. the  malware   encryption  victims' files and demands a ransom be paid before they can be unlocked. the  phishing  emails told recipients they owed hundreds of pounds to uk businesses and that they could print an invoice by clicking on a link - but that leads to  malware , as mr brandt explained. one of the emails was received by you and yours reporter shari vahl. "it's incredibly fast and by the time the warning message had appeared on the screen it had already  encryption  everything of value on the hard drive - it happens in seconds," mr brandt told the bbc. "this is the desktop version of a smash and grab - they want a quick payoff." maktub doesn't just demand a ransom, it increases the fee - which is to be paid in bitcoins - as time elapses. a website associated with the  malware  explains that during the first three days, the fee stands at 1.4 bitcoins, or approximately $580. this rises to 1.9 bitcoins, or $790, after the third day. the  phishing  emails tell recipients that they owe money to british businesses and charities when they do not. one of the organisations named was the koestler trust, a charity which helps ex-offenders and prisoners produce artwork. "we rely on generous members of the public and we were very distressed when we discovered that people felt they had received emails from us asking for money, when indeed they had not been generated by us at all," chief executive sally taylor told you and yours. one remarkable feature of the scam emails was the fact that they included not just the victim's name, but also their postal address.  many, including bbc staff, have noted that the addresses are generally highly accurate. according to dr steven murdoch, a cybersecurity expert at the university of london, it's still not clear how scammers were able to gather people's addresses and link them to names and emails. the data could have come from a number of leaked or stolen databases for example, making it hard to track down the source. several people contacted the you and yours team to say that they were concerned data might have been taken from their ebay accounts, as their postal addresses had been stored there in the same format as they appeared in the  phishing  emails. in a statement, the firm said: "ebay works aggressively to protect customer data and privacy, which is our highest priority.  "we are not aware of any link between this new  phishing  scam and ebay's data.  "we continually update our approach to customer data security in an effort to create the safest environment possible for our customers." the uk's national fraud and cybercrime reporting centre has been flooded with queries from people targeted by the scam. "we have been inundated with this," said deputy head steve proffitt. "at action fraud on monday we received an additional 600 calls and from then onwards we've received 500 calls to our contact centre a day," he added. mr proffitt advised people who had received the  phishing  emails to under no circumstances click on the link, but instead delete the message from their system and inform action fraud. referring specifically to maktub and the approach taken by the phishers, dr murdoch said he believed the scam was "significant" in more ways than one. "it also appears to be quite widespread - i've heard about it from multiple sources so it seems like they were fairly successful getting a lot of these sent out," he told the bbc. he added that it was hard to know how to advise people who were unfortunate enough to have their files  encryption  by  ransomware . for some individuals without backups, paying the ransom might be the only way to retrieve their data. "however, every person that does that makes the business more valuable for the criminal and the world worse for everyone," he said. facebook's plans to roll out  encryption  across its messaging services could jeopardise ongoing work to combat child abuse, the home secretary has warned. such  encryption  means only the sender and recipient can read messages.  "we cannot allow a situation where law enforcement's ability to tackle abhorrent criminal acts and protect victims is severely hampered," priti patel told a charity-hosted event. facebook says its plans for wider  encryption  protects users' privacy. the national society for the prevention of cruelty to children (nspcc), which invited ms patel to speak, has claimed that private messaging "is the frontline of child sexual abuse".   encryption  messages by default could lead to the easier spread of child abuse imagery or online grooming, it has said.  in her speech, the home secretary said that facebook must take into account public safety when it makes changes to its platform - and in particular seriously consider the effect on children. "sadly, at a time when we need to be taking more action... facebook is still pursuing end-to-end  encryption  plans that place the good work and the progress that has already been made at jeopardy," she said. "offending is continuing, and will continue - these images of children being abused just continue to proliferate, even right now while we are speaking. but the company intends to blind itself to this problem through end-to-end  encryption  which prevents all access to messaging content." "my view is that this is simply not acceptable," she added. facebook, however, said that "end-to-end  encryption  is already the leading security technology used by many services to keep people safe from hackers and criminals". safety features are already a part of its plans, it added. end-to-end  encryption  guarantees privacy by making sure only the sender or recipient can read the messages.  while it travels, it is scrambled to be unreadable, including by law enforcement. the only way to read the message is usually to get physical access to an unlocked device receiving it.  currently, only one of facebook's major messaging platforms - whatsapp - uses end-to-end  encryption  by default. the company has plans to make the privacy feature the norm on facebook messenger and instagram - but has not yet done so. when messaging platforms are not end-to-end  encryption , tech giants such as facebook can use automatic scanning of their users' posts to identify the sharing of known child abuse images and detect questionable use of private messaging - such as an older person chatting to underage users they do not already know.  the nspcc argues that rolling out the  encryption  as planned would "render these [scanning] tools useless", and is calling on facebook to reconsider. an estimate from the us national center for missing and exploited children suggests as many as 70% of child abuse reports around the world could be lost if it goes ahead.  the npscc unveiled research at the event that suggests social media users are keen to see some guarantee that children's safety will be protected.  the charity is demanding a "reset" of the debate, arguing that it has become stuck as an "either/or" debate between personal privacy and child safety.  instead, it is calling for a "balanced" solution that protects both.  ms patel echoed that sentiment, saying: "i want to make it clear that the government does support  encryption , where of course companies can protect users' privacy, and there are many areas where this is important." "we believe that it is possible to implement end-to-end  encryption , the service, in a way in which is also consistent with public protection and child safety," she said. but she did not say what that would look like. some possible solutions, such as on-device software that scans messages before they are sent, have their own privacy concerns.   gaining access to the content of  encryption  messages has long been a topic of debate in government. one of ms patel's predecessors, amber rudd, argued in the wake of the 2017 westminster attack that "we need to make sure that our intelligence services have the ability to get into...  encryption  whatsapp".    and former prime minister david cameron, in the wake of the 2015 paris attacks, declared that there should be no "means of communication" which "we cannot read".   despite such concerns,  encryption  messaging remains a sensitive topic with much public support.  jim killock, executive director of the open rights group, said: " encryption  is popular and growing because users want security and protection from fraud, scams and abuse of their data."  "it would be completely unreasonable to ban or limit everyday security for one set of people over the other. "it is absolutely necessary to deal with child abuse images, but solutions must be compatible with people's right to keep themselves safe from other kinds of criminality, so should move away from endlessly debating how to stop the use of  encryption ."  children 'at risk' from  encryption  message appsfacebook dominates cases of social media groomingfacebook shareholders try to block  encryption  plan but sir peter wanless, nspcc chief executive, argued that view risked "leaving children unprotected where there is most harm".  "it's in firms' interests to find a fix that allows them to continue to use tech to disrupt abuse in an end-to-end  encryption  world," he added.  and he said that if the tech giants failed to do so, "ultimately government must be the guardrail" to protect children.  facebook has long defended its plans to introduce end-to-end  encryption  as essential to user privacy. in a statement reacting to the home secretary's remarks, a company spokesman said: "child exploitation has no place on our platforms and facebook will continue to lead the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect and respond to abuse.   "its full rollout on our messaging services is a long-term project and we are building strong safety measures into our plans."  encryption -messaging app signal says it has found flaws in software used by cyber-security company cellebrite. the two companies have been at odds since cellebrite claimed to have cracked signal's secure messaging last year - a claim it fiercely disputed. in the latest spat, signal boss moxie marlinspike joked he had acquired cellebrite's system after it "fell off a truck" in front of him. and, he claimed, its software was so flawed he could easily hack into it. "there are virtually no limits on the code that can be executed," he blogged, suggesting the flaws could be used to access data, change settings, and more. in a statement, cellebrite said: "we constantly strive to ensure that our products and software meet and exceed the highest standards in the industry so that all data produced with our tools is validated and forensically sound." mr marlinspike said: "by a truly unbelievable coincidence, i was recently out for a walk when i saw a small package fall off a truck ahead of me. "inside, we found the latest versions of the cellebrite software, a hardware dongle designed to prevent piracy... and a bizarrely large number of cable adapters." facebook  encryption  ‘must not cause children harm’firm claimed to have 'cracked' signal  encryption  hinting at his motives for the blog post, he said: "their software is often associated with bypassing security, so let's take some time to examine the security of their own software." and in a video loaded with satirical references to the 1995 cult film hackers, mr marlinspike then demonstrated apparently running a simple piece of code on a machine running cellebrite  software, which he claimed showed an easy way to compromise the security company's system. "it's possible to execute any code," he added, "and a real exploit payload would likely seek to undetectably alter previous reports, compromise the integrity of future reports (perhaps at random), or exfiltrate data from the cellebrite machine." they say revenge is a dish best served cold - but in this case, it was served with a giggle. signal's blog post is full of hacking references and pointed jibes at cellebrite. the flaws signal claims to have discovered in the controversial cellebrite technology, if accurate, are embarrassing for a company billing itself as smart enough to crack into secure-messaging systems. and this comes, of course, only months after cellebrite claimed to have developed a way to crack private signal messages - a claim since debunked. so this cyber-security revenge research seems to have left cellebrite with questions to answer. cyber-security expert andrew morris summed up this story best when he tweeted: "this blog post is the nerd equivalent of an absolutely ruthless rap diss track." and this hacking rap battle may already have ended with a signal mic drop. the row began in december, when cellebrite claimed to have cracked signal's  encryption  system, in a blog post it later altered to downplay the claim. signal responded by calling the claim "pretty embarrassing" and criticising media coverage - particularly that of bbc news. in his most recent post., mr marlinspike said: "one way to think about cellebrite's products is that if someone is physically holding your unlocked device in their hands, they could open whatever apps they would like and take screenshots of everything in them to save and go over later,"  "cellebrite essentially automates that process for someone holding your device in their hands." in its own statement, cellebrite said it "understands that research is the cornerstone of ensuring this validation, making sure that lawfully obtained digital evidence is utilised to pursue justice". "we will continue to integrate these standards in our products, software, and the cellebrite team, in order to deliver the most effective, secure and user-friendly tools for our customers," it added. israeli security firm cellebrite has claimed that it can decrypt messages from signal's highly secure chat and voice-call app, boasting that it could disrupt communications from "gang members, drug dealers and even protesters". a blog on its website detailing how it did it has since been altered. according to one cyber-security expert, the claims sounded "believable". but others, including signal's founder, have dismissed them as being risible. the bbc has contacted cellebrite and signal for comment. signal did not reply but later posted a blog describing cellebrite's original post as being "pretty embarrassing". highly  encryption  apps such as signal and telegram have become popular among people keen to keep their messages private. the adoption rates have worried law enforcement agencies, who feel they are hampering their ability to investigate crimes. "apps like these make parsing data for forensic analysis extremely difficult," writes cellebrite. the firm has a series of products, including the ufed (universal foresenic extraction device) - a system that allows authorities to unlock and access the data on suspects' phones. cellebrite provided a technical explanation of how it found a decryption key that allowed it to access the messages that signal stores its database. it then described how it searched signal's open-source code for clues as to how to breach the database. "we finally found what we were looking for," it writes, with a full explanation of how it did it, which has since been deleted. its claim suggested that it could "crack" signal's  encryption  on android phones to decrypt messages and attachments, but did not mention apple devices. in response to people questioning cellebrite's claims, the creator of signal - moxie marlinspike - dismissed the idea that the app had been compromised. "this was an article about 'advanced techniques' cellebrite used to decode a signal message on an unlocked android device," he tweeted. "they could have also just opened the app to look at the messages. "the whole article read like amateur hour, which is i assume why they removed it." john scott-railton, a senior researcher at citizen lab, an internet watchdog based at the university of toronto, moved to reassure users that signal "remains one of the most secure and private ways to communicate". "if they are worried about their chats being extracted from a confiscated device, they can enable disappearing messages," he added. signal, owned by the signal technology foundation, puts privacy at the heart of its system, using a system that  had been thought almost impossible to break.  the messaging app is endorsed by whistleblower edward snowden, who claims to use it "every day".  on its website, it says that it uses state-of-the-art, end-to-end  encryption  to keep all conversations secure.  "we can't read your messages or listen to your calls, and no-one else can either." alan woodward, a professor of computer science at surrey university, said signal was "one of the most secure, if not the most secure, messenger service publicly available". "signal employs end-to-end  encryption , but goes further than apps like whatsapp by obscuring metadata - who talked to who when and for how long," he explained. "cellebrite seem to have been able to recover the decryption key, which seems extraordinary as they are usually very well protected on modern mobile devices." he added that if this was indeed true, it was no surprise cellebrite would have altered its blog. "i suspect someone in authority told them to, or they realised they may have provided enough detail to allow others - who don't just supply to law-enforcement agencies - to achieve the same result." investors at facebook's annual stockholder meeting will vote on a proposal to postpone the firm's plans for end-to-end  encryption . the firm says it wants to make the measure the default option across its messaging platforms to protect privacy. but activist shareholders say this would make it nearly impossible to detect child exploitation on facebook. the group wants the company to delay the move until after its board of directors studies the risk further.  "as shareholders, we know that privacy is important to a social media company, but it should not come at the expense of unleashing a whole new torrent of virtually undetectable child sexual abuse on facebook," said michael passoff, founder of proxy impact, a shareholder advocacy service supporting the measure. facebook's 2020 annual shareholders' meeting will be held virtually due to covid-19, but investors will still be able to vote on measures and hear about the management plans. facebook claims to be a leader in fighting child exploitation on the internet.  "as we expand end-to-end  encryption  to secure people's private messages from hackers and criminals we remain committed to leading our industry in keeping children safe," it said. the measure is unlikely to pass.  most of the company's voting shares are controlled by facebook's founder and chief executive, mark zuckerberg, and a small number of other executives. in march 2019, mr zuckerberg said he wanted the firm to make end-to-end  encryption  the base level of security for all its messaging services - including facebook messenger and instagram messaging. but he did not lay out a timeline, and many engineers thought it would be several years before it happened. the initiative would mean that messages - including text and imagery - are digitally scrambled so that only the sender and receiver can make sense of them, and not facebook itself. whatsapp, which is owned by facebook, already has this level of security.  the us, uk and australian governments have been among those pressuring facebook to create a backdoor or other workaround that would give them access to  messages to help in criminal investigations. the company has so far refused to do this. the measure put forward by proxy impact would force facebook to examine whether something could be done to mitigate "the risk of increased sexual exploitation of children" as a consequence. in 2019, tech companies reported close to 70 million videos and pictures of children being sexually exploited to authorities. nearly 85% of those reports came from facebook. according to mr passoff, if the firm were to go through with its  encryption  plans, 70% of the cases it reports would become invisible to the firm. for facebook, this is a matter of balancing privacy and public security. users have expressed anger in the past at facebook's use and protection of their personal data. end-to-end  encryption  should prevent criminals from gaining access to private conversations and help protect personal and financial data, assuming users' devices are not compromised. it would also offer the firm a defence against being responsible for detecting and reporting criminal and terrorist activity, as it would no longer be able to read the messages involved. some investors supporting the measure claim this could prove damaging to the company. "numerous controversies have eroded its reputational capital and put the company at risk for future competitive threats," said lisette cooper, vice-chair of fiduciary trust international, which is supporting the vote.   "the position of facebook as the world's number one hub for online child sexual abuse material is not the marketing strategy you want to have for long-term success." however, mr zuckerberg has previously addressed the issue directly. "when we were deciding whether to go to end-to-end  encryption  across the different apps, this was one of the things that just weighed the most heavily on me," he said in october. but he added that he was "optimistic" that predators could still be identified by other means, including their patterns of activity. there's more coverage in sunday's newspapers of the fallout from dominic cumming's claims about the conduct of the prime minister. the mail on sunday says downing street has launched a counter-attack against the former chief adviser, claiming his allies within number 10 were responsible for what the paper calls "nasty and sexist briefings" against boris johnson's fiancee carrie symonds. it also claims mr cummings is planning to accuse the pm of being so determined to resist a second lockdown last year that he would have tolerated a large number of deaths.  the sunday telegraph reports the government is growing increasingly worried by what information the former aide may reveal if he hands over a dossier of documents to a parliamentary committee. it quotes a westminster insider, who claims the disclosure may also damage chancellor rishi sunak by revealing his strong opposition to covid restrictions being reintroduced.   the front page of the daily star features a cheeky offer to mr cummings, saying they'll pay him £1.25 to tell them everything he knows. the observer's leader says that the plausibility of mr cummings' claims demonstrate how "dishonourable the prime minister has already revealed himself to be", with the paper's chief political commentator andrew rawnsley predicting that the ongoing questions over the integrity of ministers will eventually prompt "a day of reckoning" at the ballot box. in the sunday express, political commentator patrick o'flynn says the public are unlikely to turn on mr johnson when his willingness to break rules and govern in an unconventional manner is a major reason why many voted for him in 2019. sign up for a morning briefing direct to your inbox the new head of mi6 - richard moore - has told the sunday times that he's taken inspiration from the james bond movies by officially renaming the head of the secret service's technical department as q. mr moore has also revealed that he is attempting to recruit somebody to the the position from outside the organisation for the first time to help to develop partnerships with the private sector to aid the development of new gadgets for spies. hollywood security teams will be switching their focus from gatecrashers to hackers ahead of the oscars tonight, according to the sunday telegraph.   it reports that the lavish post-ceremony celebrity parties will still be hosted online this year due to the pandemic, with organisers hiring cyber security experts to act as "digital bouncers" to protect those attending from  ransomware  attacks.  the paper says tickets to the star studded private events are being sold for hundreds of thousands of pounds, with guests having extravagant gift bags and catering delivered to their homes. movie mixtapes: a playlist of the best chilled out tunes from your favourite filmsfancy a film?: get in the mood for the oscars a drug trafficker and two couriers have been jailed after police hacked into an  encryption  criminal phone network. the men used encrochat to arrange transporting £300,000 worth of cocaine and heroin from liverpool to nottinghamshire. they discussed borrowing an ambulance to move the drugs and dressing women up as nurses to bypass coronavirus restrictions, police said.  nottinghamshire police have described the case as a "massive breakthrough". david martin, 42, of third avenue, rainworth recruited drug couriers, lee bennett, 30, and jamie wilkinson, 45, as part of the deal. latest news and stories from the east midlands all three men were sentenced at nottingham crown court on thursday after pleading guilty to conspiring to supply a controlled class a drug. martin was sentenced to nine years in jail. wilkinson, of ash crescent, nuthall, was jailed for four-and-a-half years and bennett, of kenbrook road, hucknall, was given a three-and-a-half year sentence. encrochat has been described by the national crime agency as a "criminal marketplace" used to trade drugs and guns. in june last year it was successfully hacked in an operation led by french and dutch police. nottinghamshire police said this is the first time the force had successfully prosecuted some of those that were exposed. martin was a "highly-placed member of a criminal drug dealing organisation", the force said. he was using encrochat to negotiate the supply of drugs into nottinghamshire between 31 march and 8 june 2020. police said martin used the nickname steelwhale and was boasting on the network about his business with suppliers in liverpool. they said he also discussed borrowing an ambulance to transport the drugs and dressing women up as nurses while coronavirus travel restrictions were in place. bennett and wilkinson were sent to collect 5kg of cocaine and 2kg of heroin to the value of £300,000 and bring it back to nottinghamshire, the force said.  det supt mike allen, of nottinghamshire police, said: "those committing some of the most serious crimes and who have thought of themselves as untouchable have been the authors of their own demise after policing gained access to their criminal marketplace and gathered evidence quietly.   "such criminals deserve to spend their time in prison and whilst they are behind bars they are no longer a menace to the good people of nottinghamshire." both bennett and wilkinson were also ordered to pay a victim surcharge of £181. follow bbc east midlands on facebook, twitter, or instagram. send your story ideas to eastmidsnews@bbc.co.uk. the lobbying controversy that has enveloped westminster is a complex and fast-developing story but there is one strand running right through the centre of it - the smartphone.  whatsapp and text messages have replaced face-to-face meetings and letters as the favourite method of communication for politicians. the casual, and sometimes untraceable, nature of these communications can make it harder for the civil service to ensure everyone - ministers, officials, businesses and lobbyists - plays by the rules. it wasn't that long ago that everything was typed out in triplicate, and phone calls were routed through whitehall switchboards, with officials listening in and taking notes. cummings denies leaking pm's text messagescameron: nonsense to say greensill was desperateno 10 announces leak inquiry into pm-dyson texts tony blair didn't get a mobile phone until he left downing street in 2007. now politicians, like the rest of us, can't live without them. following a series of revelations about ministers' use of texts and messaging apps, labour has warned that the uk is heading towards "government by whatsapp". it's a catchy slogan, but it might be a bit dated, as the prime minister and other leading politicians are reportedly migrating to signal, a rival messaging app. users can set  encryption  messages to automatically delete after short periods of time, even as short as five seconds. they can also stop screenshots being taken of exchanges if they are using an android phone.  messages sent and received on facebook-owned whatsapp - which has been around since 2009 - are also  encryption , but screenshots can be taken and shared. ministers are issued with work mobile phones when they get a job in government. until a few years ago, they were given blackberries, but now the iphone seems to be the favoured brand. the idea is to ensure that professional and personal calls, texts and emails are kept separate from their personal communications. "i was given a phone as soon as i started," one former conservative minister tells the bbc, "but i wasn't sat down and issued with any advice on how to use it." a government source says: "clearly ministers may have informal conversations from time-to-time, whether that is in person, via digital communications or remotely, and if they find themselves discussing official business then significant content from such discussions should be passed back to officials." in official guidance, designed for private emails but applying to all electronic communications, ministers are told to work out whether they include details on "substantive discussions" or "decisions" made on government business. if they do, they should then forward them to civil servants. the ministerial code, laying out general rules of behaviour, says that a private secretary or another official should be present for "all discussions relating to government", to ensure transparency. if that's impossible - such as when ministers chat to business leaders at social events - they have to report back to civil servants as soon as possible. it's widely accepted that phone messaging should be reported in the same way if it's about important official business. but the institute for government (ifg) think tank wants a tightening of the rules, so that all messages sent and received on official phones - about whatever topic - are logged, with the names of those taking part published quarterly. this already happens for meetings ministers attend. "there needs to a public record that something's happened," ifg associate director tim durrant says. "texting's essentially a conversation, like a meeting." a source who used to work in whitehall in a senior role says it was "normal" for ministers to have text exchanges with business leaders - and then let civil servants know about them. "there's nothing wrong with the leaders of this country talking to captains of industry," they add. "it's a part of how government functions. we live in a free country. "what really annoys me is that there's an assumption of wrongdoing of some sort here. it's wrong to say government is run by text message. it's a form of communication that everyone uses for personal and official matters." culture minister caroline dinenage told times radio ministers did not hand out their mobile numbers "willy-nilly" and there were "very clear rules" about handing contacts to civil servants. but labour argues that the government's use of messaging fosters "cronyism", that those with ministers' phone numbers have an unfair advantage over those who do not. an ex-minister tells the bbc they kept personal and officially messages completely separate when they were in office. "you have to rely on people using their common sense," they add. "some ministers actually hand the work mobile across to be carried by a special adviser or a member of their team, so they're not too close to it and don't use it in an inappropriate way. "you've also got be careful as to whom you give your number out to." some in government have suggested the prime minister should be less willing to share his personal contact details, the bbc understands, but officials have denied that he was told to change his number. but mr johnson says he will keep his phone, arguing: "i need to be in touch with people... you need one these days." and there would inevitably be resistance to any rule change among some in whitehall. one former special adviser asks: "what are ministers supposed to do? put in a 30-page submission for every transaction they carry out, even in the midst of a pandemic?" child-protection organisations say facebook's decision to strongly encryption messages will give offenders a place to hide.  the company is moving ahead with plans to implement the measure on facebook messenger and instagram direct.  but more than 100 organisations, led by the nspcc, have signed an open letter warning the plans will undermine efforts to catch abusers.  home secretary priti patel said she "fully supported" the move. in a statement to the bbc, she said: "tech companies like facebook have a vital responsibility to balance privacy with the safety of vulnerable children." "following my letter to mark zuckerberg, i met with sheryl sandberg and emphasised that facebook's  encryption  plans cannot be allowed to hamper their ability to protect young people from paedophiles online. we have also submitted detailed evidence to the us senate about these concerns. "i fully support the continued efforts of the nspcc and children's charities around the world to engage facebook on this issue." end-to-end  encryption , already used on facebook-owned whatsapp, means no-one, including the company that owns the platform, can see the content of sent messages.   those signing the letter say facebook has failed to address concerns about child safety.  the missive urges the company to stop the rollout of its plans until "sufficient safeguards" are in place. "at a time when we could be looking to build upon years of sophisticated initiatives, facebook instead seems inclined to blindfold itself," the letter says.  "we urge you to recognise and accept that an increased risk of child abuse being facilitated on or by facebook is not a reasonable trade-off to make. "children should not be put in harm's way either as a result of commercial decisions or design choices." among the other signatories were barnardo's, 5rights, the international centre for missing and exploited children, and child usa.  a spokesman for facebook said protecting the wellbeing of children on its platform was "critically important" to it.  "we have led the industry in safeguarding children from exploitation and we are bringing this same commitment and leadership to our work on  encryption ," he said. "we are working closely with child-safety experts, including ncmec [the us national center for missing and exploited children], law enforcement, governments and other technology companies, to help keep children safe online." in 2018, facebook made 16.8 million reports of child sexual exploitation and abuse content to the ncmec. the national crime agency said this had led to more than 2,500 arrests and 3,000 children made safe. but, the ncmec estimates, if facebook implements end-to-end  encryption , it could mean 70% of these vital reports are lost.  in october, facebook boss mark zuckerberg said the increased risk of child abuse "weighed heavily" on him when considering the company's end-to-end  encryption  plan.  a bbc news investigation last year found  encryption  apps were taking over from the dark web as a place to host criminals. but whatsapp boss will cathcart has previously posted on hacker news: "end-to-end  encryption  protects that right for over a billion people every day." and jo o'reilly, digital privacy advocate at proprivacy, said many users would probably welcome facebook's plans.  "it will make it significantly less likely that hackers will be able to intercept messages, going a long way to protect users from  phishing  and cyber-stalking," she said. "it is the kind of of decisive action users will be looking for to reassure them that their private conversations really are private in the wake of privacy scandals." but chief constable simon bailey, the national police chiefs' council lead for child protection, said end-to-end  encryption  would make catching criminals tougher.  "if facebook proceed with their current plans, they will knowingly put the safety of children at risk - ignoring the warnings of police, charities and experts across the world," he said. "there is a moral responsibility on them to ensure this does not happen."  and nspcc chief executive peter wanless said: "facebook may be happy to shut their eyes to abuse but they can't close their ears to this unanimous concern shown by international experts. "in its current form,  encryption  would breach facebook's duty of care for children so the uk government must ensure a new regulator has the power to hold them financially and criminally accountable. apple reportedly abandoned plans to let customers fully encryption back-ups of their iphones on the company's icloud following pressure from the fbi.  full  encryption  involves converting data into code so it is impossible to access without a password.  apple was working on the feature in secret about two years ago, according to reuters, which broke the news.  but some suggest an alternative explanation is concern about users getting locked out of their accounts. at present, apple can help a subscriber get back data created on a lost, damaged or stolen device, even if they have forgotten their account's credentials, since the company holds a copy of their icloud  encryption  key. "if apple were to implement end-to-end  encryption  for icloud back-ups, there's no might about it - if the customer forgets their password, they would lose access to their data," wrote the blogger john gruber. he noted that chief executive tim cook had given a similar explanation to der spiegel in october 2018, when he had indicated that he believed his firm would "change this practice" at some point in the future when data-recovery would be controlled solely via users' devices.  reuters spoke to six sources, including former employees at apple and the fbi.  it said one ex-apple worker had suggested the firm's legal department had ultimately "killed" the plan. "that person told reuters the company did not want to risk being attacked by public officials for protecting criminals, sued for moving previously accessible data out of reach of government agencies or used as an excuse for new legislation against  encryption ," the news agency added. reuters reporter joseph menn added that he "could not determine why exactly apple" decided to abandon the  encryption  project. " encryption  data is essential and companies usually offer help and support when protecting data, so this news comes as a shock to me," commented jake moore, a cyber-security expert at internet security and antivirus company eset.  "however, it doesn't mean your back-up and data can't be  encryption .  "you will still be able to make an  encryption  back-up on your home computer and store it there.  "as always, users should also be reminded that their data needs to be protected with a strong and complex password. "the balance between law enforcement and tech companies protecting data comes into question quite often.  "however, this balance is extremely difficult to fine-tune.  "typically, users want the easiest route if they care about their data security, so  encryption  should be handed to them on a plate." over the past seven years, apple has responded to over 127,000 requests from us law enforcement agencies for information. last week, the us attorney general publicly requested apple unlock two iphones used by a saudi air force officer who shot dead three americans at a naval base in pensacola, florida, last month.  and on 14 january, president donald trump accused apple on twitter of refusing to unlock phones used by "killers, drug dealers, and other violent criminal elements".  but apple did in fact turn over the gunman's icloud backups.   "we reject the characterisation that apple has not provided substantive assistance in the pensacola investigation," apple said on 13 january.  "our responses to their many requests since the attack have been timely, thorough and are ongoing." people can now enter their phone numbers into a website to see if they appeared in a recent facebook data breach. details of more than 530 million people were leaked in a database online, largely consisting of mobile numbers. people can use the  have i been pwned online tool to check if their numbers or emails were compromised. facebook says the data is from an “old” breach in 2019 but privacy watchdogs are now investigating. facebook said it had "found and fixed" the breach more than a year-and-a-half ago. but the information has now been published for free in a hacking forum, making it widely available. the database covers 533 million people in 106 countries, according to researchers analysing the data. that includes 11 million facebook users in the uk, 30 million americans and 7 million australians. not every piece of data is available for each user but 500 million phone numbers were leaked compared with “only a few million email addresses”, troy hunt, a security expert who runs haveibeenpwned said in a blog on his website. mr hunt launched the phone number search function after “unprecedented traffic” to the website, following the news of the facebook data leak. previously, users of the platform could only search for email addresses. visitors to the website can now enter their mobile number into a search box, and the website will confirm if it has appeared in the leaked database. “i wanted to ensure have i been pwned could answer that question for everyone, not just a tiny slice of people,” mr hunt told the bbc. it has also been suggested that facebook’s own chief executive, mark zuckerberg, had his mobile number leaked in the database. "this is the number associated with his account from the recent facebook leak," security expert dave walker tweeted, along with a screenshot of zuckerberg's leaked phone number. the screenshot also suggests mr zuckerberg was on messaging platform signal - which uses end-to-end  encryption  and is not owned by facebook. facebook has requested users input their phone numbers since 2011, citing security reasons. it allows for “two-factor authentication”, an additional feature that sends a text to a user’s mobile whenever somebody logs into their account. the tech giant has advised users to check what details they share publicly on the platform by updating the how people find and contact you section, as well as completing "regular privacy checkups". facebook added the data was "scraped" using public information available on the system, rather than hacked. meanwhile, several investigations have been launched into facebook by privacy watchdogs around the world.  ireland's data protection commission said it was working with the tech firm to establish if “the dataset referred to is indeed the same as that reported in 2019”. the philippines’ national privacy commission and hong kong’s office of the privacy commissioner have also launched probes into the breach. criminals and paedophiles are trying to groom and exploit young siblings as part of an emerging trend of online sexual abuse, experts have warned.   the internet watch foundation said victims ranged from 3-16 years, with some groomed to copy adult pornography. it found 511 examples involving siblings between september and december - roughly one in 30 instances of all "self-generated content" in that time. campaigners say livestreaming services need to do more to protect children. the iwf, which works with police and websites worldwide to take down harmful material, said the covid-19 pandemic had been a "perfect storm" for the abuse. its chief executive, susie hargreaves, said there had been: a greater demand for abusive contentan increase in the amount of time spent online by childrena rise in the use of livestreaming platforms there was a "common myth" abuse involving siblings was limited to poorer countries - but most of the videos the iwf found featured children in the west, including from the uk, us and across europe. internet child abuse images 'not purged in lockdown'online child abuse rising during lockdownchildren 'at risk' from  encryption  message appsshould governments be given keys to access our messages? grooming often begins on social-media and gaming platforms, before offenders encourage children on to video-chat or livestreaming services where the abuse then escalates. and abuse of siblings typically involves an older child being coerced into abusing their younger brother or sister. one video, shared online multiple times, involved a brother and sister aged six and three being given instructions by an abuser, the iwf said. last december, the government set out its proposed online harms bill, designed to ensure companies provide improved safeguarding measures. it plans to give watchdog ofcom the power to: block access to online services that fail to protect users fine technology companies the proposals contained the "strongest protections" for children, safeguarding minister victoria atkins told bbc news.  "encouraging siblings to enact sexual abuse demonstrates just how heinous offenders are in this space," she added.  nspcc online-safety-policy head andy burrows said it could be a "world-leading piece of legislation" but must follow through with its promise to give ofcom "teeth" to step in and take action. in the past year, in the race to bring video-chat and livestreaming services to market, some technology companies had prioritised profit over making their platforms safe, the charity said. and mr burrows raised particular concerns over facebook's plans to introduce end-to-end  encryption  - a way of sending information so only the intended receiver can read it - across all of its messenger services. plans to include it in its video-chat service, rooms, launched in may, would "significantly compromise the ability to detect child abuse", he said. the national crime agency said the changes would "dramatically reduce [facebook's] ability to provide law-enforcement with the evidence they need" to prosecute alleged offenders. facebook said end-to-end  encryption  "was already the leading security technology used by many services to keep people safe" and "a long-term project". it added: "we are committed to building strong anti-abuse measures into our plans. "facebook will continue to lead the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect and respond to abuse."  for information and support for those affected, visit the bbc's action line. uk home secretary priti patel and counterparts in the us and australia have sent an open letter to facebook calling on it to rethink its plans to encryption all messages on its platforms. the policy threatens "lives and the safety of our children", they said. they said it could hamper international efforts to grant law enforcers faster access to private messages on social media, as agreed between the uk and us. facebook said "people have the right to have a private conversation online." the head of facebook-owned whatsapp will cathcart had previously posted on hacker news: "end-to-end  encryption  protects that right for over a billion people every day." facebook said it is "consulting closely with child safety experts, governments and technology companies and devoting new teams and sophisticated technology" to keep people safe. the letter was signed by ms patel, the us attorney general william p barr, acting us homeland security secretary kevin mcaleenan and the australian minister for home affairs peter dutton. it comes off the back of a data access agreement between the us and the uk  designed to remove the barriers to cross-border surveillance.  it allows british law-enforcement agencies to demand from us tech firms data relating to terrorists, child-sexual abusers and other serious criminals. it is hoped it will dramatically speed up investigations - previously, the process of requesting data from us firms could take anything from six months to two years.  under the new agreement that could be cut to a matter of weeks or even days. but there is one major problem - messages sent over services using end-to-end  encryption , such as whatsapp, will remain unreadable. following scandals over the misuse of personal data, the social network has focused on privacy and it now offers  encryption  as an option to users on its messenger service.  it also has plans to introduce it to instagram. "tech companies like facebook have a responsibility to balance privacy with the safety of the public," the letter read. it added: "so far nothing we have seen from facebook reassures me that their plans for end-to-end  encryption  will not act as barrier to the identification and pursuit of criminals operating on their platforms. "companies cannot operate with impunity where lives and the safety of our children is at stake, and if mr zuckerberg really has a credible plan to protect facebook's more than two billion users, it's time he let us know what it is." in 2018, facebook made 16.8 million reports of child sexual exploitation and abuse content to the us national centre for missing and exploited children, which the national crime agency estimates have led to more than 2,500 arrests and 3,000 children made safe. head of online child safety at the nspcc tony stower said: "it's an absolute scandal that facebook are actively choosing to provide offenders with a way to hide in the shadows on their platform, seamlessly able to target, groom and abuse children completely undetected.  "the landmark agreement between the us and uk on accessing data will radically reduce the time it takes for police to get hold of the data they need from tech giants to bring offenders to justice.   "it should be a hugely important step forward in tackling online child abuse - if tech giants play their part too." there has been some confusion about whether the cloud act could force firms such as facebook to offer so-called back doors to law enforcement. in a series of tweets on the issue, facebook's ex-technology officer alex stamos attempted to clarify. "this agreement would allow uk courts to issue requests equivalent to us courts, but it does not grant them access to anything a us court can't get already," he wrote. "orders for wire taps of products like whatsapp can get some data, like ip addresses, phone numbers, contact lists and avatar photos. it cannot get  encryption  messages and attachments."  a bbc investigation earlier this year found that  encryption  apps were taking over from the dark web as a place to host criminals. governments in the uk, us and australia have asked facebook, in an open letter, to roll back plans to bring end-to-end  encryption  to all of its platforms. facebook, rocked by privacy scandals, responds that everyone has the right to a private conversation. it is the latest in an age-old battle between privacy and safety, which has played out between governments and tech firms ever since digital communication became mass market. as the name suggests, this is a secure way of sending information so that only the intended receiver can read it. the information is  encryption  while it is still on the sender's device and is only decrypted when it reaches the person intended. nobody, not even the platform owner, has the keys to unlock it. it was introduced partly as a response to national security agency whistleblower edward snowden's revelations that the intelligence services in the uk and us had many ways to intercept communication and were doing so on a mass scale. facebook  encryption  threatens safety - ministerswhatsapp hack: is any app or computer truly secure? the uk and the us have just signed an historic agreement to give each other a much faster way of getting hold of private conversations - cutting down the process time from months or years, to weeks or days. but that agreement could potentially be rendered a bit useless, if they cannot read the scrambled messages. when the bbc asked the home office to provide examples, it could not do so. the real issue is the fact that facebook will no longer be able to police its own content, it said. it pointed to the fact that last year facebook sent 12 million reports of child exploitation or abuse to the us's national center for missing and exploited children, and it would no longer be able to do this if it had  encryption  on all its platforms. it is something that facebook chief mark zuckerberg addressed directly in a q&a with staff about the issue. "when we decided to go to end-to-end  encryption  across the different apps, this is one of the things that just weighed the most heavily on me," he said. "there is more stuff on basically being able to identify patterns of activity, especially around sharing child pornography, and things like this that are just terrible, that i think you can probably find through patterns of activity and that we are going to ramp up investment of," he added. he was keen to point out that the fact there was so much child abuse imagery reported via facebook did not indicate that messenger, the name of facebook's direct messaging service, was the preferred platform for it, more that facebook had become very good at finding it and sending it on. "a backdoor is rather like leaving a key under the mat - once someone knows it is there anyone can walk in," said prof alan woodward, a security expert at the university of surrey and a consultant to europol. his words were echoed by human rights pressure group amnesty international in its response. "proposals for a 'backdoor' have repeatedly been shown to be unworkable. there is no middle ground: if law enforcement is allowed to circumvent  encryption , then anybody can," it said. governments could also ask the social network to change the technical architecture of its platforms so messages could be decrypted when they reached the server. but that would signal a return to days of mass surveillance, thinks prof woodward. "it's exactly what we had before snowden's revelations and the reaction of the service providers was to introduce end-to-end  encryption  such that they could not disclose either the key or the decrypted message even if compelled to by law. the laws of mathematics currently trump the law of the land." and, of course, there is good old-fashioned policing - if the police request data from whatsapp, they do get ip addresses, phone numbers and contact lists which could be useful in piecing together evidence, even without the full messages australia has passed controversial laws designed to compel technology companies to grant police and security agencies access to  encryption  messages. the government says the laws, a world first, are necessary to help combat terrorism and crime. however critics have listed wide-ranging concerns, including that the laws could undermine the overall security and privacy of users.  the laws were rushed through parliament on its final day of the year. the labor opposition said it had reluctantly supported the laws to help protect australians during the christmas period, but on friday it said that "legitimate concerns" about them remained. cyber-security experts have warned the laws could now create a "global weak point" for companies such as facebook and apple. australia already has laws which require providers to hand over a suspect's communication to police.  this may already be possible if a service provider uses a form of  encryption  that allows them to view a user's message. but in recent years, services such as whatsapp, signal and others have added an additional layer of security known as end-to-end  encryption . fbi says device  encryption  is 'a huge problem'geeks v government: the battle over public key cryptography end-to-end  encryption  allows only the sender and recipient to view a message, preventing it from being unscrambled by the service provider.  australia and other countries have said that terrorists and criminals exploit this technology to avoid surveillance. it differs from laws in china, russia and turkey, where services offering end-to-end  encryption  are banned. under australia's legislation, police can force companies to create a technical function that would give them access to  encryption  messages without the user's knowledge. "this ensures that our national security and law enforcement agencies have the modern tools they need, with appropriate authority and oversight, to access the  encryption  conversations of those who seek to do us harm," attorney-general christian porter said. however, cyber-security experts say it's not possible to create a "back door" decryption that would safely target just one person.  "any vulnerability would just weaken the existing  encryption  scheme, affecting security overall for innocent people," said dr chris culnane from the university of melbourne. such a "security hole" could then be abused or exploited by criminals, he said.  in a bid to address these concerns, australia's law offers a safeguard which says decryptions won't go ahead if they create a "systemic weakness". however critics say the definition of "systemic weakness" is vague, meaning it is unclear how it may be applied.  digital rights advocates are highly critical of australia's move, saying it lacks sufficient checks and balances. the electronic frontier foundation has said police could order individual it developers to create technical functions without their company's knowledge. "this has the potential for australian tech firms to have no clue whether they were even subject to an order," the foundation's nate cardozo told the bbc. there is also criticism over how fast the laws were passed. a draft bill was presented only in august. a parliamentary committee examining the legislation did not release its report until late on wednesday.  labor initially proposed 173 amendments to the bill, but agreed to drop them on thursday so that the law would be passed this year. in return, the government pledged to debate possible amendments next year. but the nation's top legal society, the law council of australia, said on friday that the laws had been "rammed" through the parliament with inadequate consideration. if companies don't comply with the laws, they risk being fined.  that's led to speculation that some global firms which have vocally opposed the laws could withdraw from the australian market. however, dr culnane said that most companies are likely to comply - partly because users won't be aware if their messages have been accessed. however, experts say the full implications are unclear and much uncertainty remains. some firms have already suggested that they may not be subject to australian law. experts add that, given the debate involves national security, many aspects may play out behind closed doors. more than 3,000 uk email servers remain at risk from the global microsoft exchange email flaw, officials believe. the national cyber security centre said it estimated 7,000 servers had been affected by the flaw in the uk and only half had been secured. it said  malware  had been detected on 2,300 machines but it had helped businesses remove it. the agency said it was "vital" that all affected businesses took action to secure their email servers. the announcement reveals the scale of the problem among uk companies for the first time since the global security flaw emerged last week.  ransomware  groups have begun using the flaw to install their malicious programs, the ncsc warned - though there was no evidence of widespread  ransomware  attacks on uk companies so far. once installed,  ransomware  locks away a user's data behind strong  encryption , making the computer system unusable. the group then demands payment to unlock it - and if demands are not met, will steal or delete the data. the security flaw affects microsoft's widely-used exchange email system, which powers the email of major corporations, small businesses and public bodies worldwide. the ncsc is particularly concerned about small and medium-sized businesses that may not have heard about the issue. initially, the flaw was being exploited by a hacking group to gain remote access to email servers, from which it could steal sensitive data. but after microsoft warned the world it had identified the problem, and urged all its users to download the latest security updates, other hacking groups quickly became familiar with the flaw. the result is a widespread free-for-all as multiple hacking groups all try to find unpatched email servers to attack. "we are working closely with industry and international partners to understand the scale and impact of uk exposure, but it is vital that all organisations take immediate steps to protect their networks," ncsc's director for operations paul chichester warned. "while this work is ongoing, the most important action is to install the latest microsoft updates." he also urged all organisations to "familiarise" themselves with the guidance surrounding  ransomware  attacks - and to search for any signs of their systems already being compromised. the true scale of this problem is still emerging with thousands of systems vulnerable in the uk alone. what is not yet entirely clear is the overall impact. while many systems are still at risk and thousands had  malware  installed, the number of cases where we know this was actually used to steal emails or lock people out with  ransomware  is still fairly low.  that may change in the coming days as more reports come in.  what is clear is that multiple hacking groups have piled in to exploit the vulnerability and those working on the defensive side are likely to stay busy for some time to come.  encryption  of online messages could make it harder to police child abuse and grooming online, the children's commissioner for england has warned.  end-to-end  encryption  is a privacy feature that makes it impossible for anyone except the sender and recipient to read messages sent online. commissioner anne longfield said it also prevented police from gathering evidence to prosecute child abusers. but digital rights groups see it as an essential part of online privacy. facebook, which is behind the most popular messaging apps children use, already offers end-to-end  encryption  for whatsapp.  it has added an opt-in version to its messenger service, with plans to make it the default for all its platforms. that could include instagram, which does not yet have it. ms longfield's warning came as she launched a new report looking at how children used online messaging apps. it found the vast majority of children aged eight and over used some sort of messaging service. that includes 60% of eight-year-olds and 90% of 12-year-olds, despite the main such apps having an age restriction of at least 13, if not older. child protectors urge facebook  encryption  rethinkchild abuse images being traded via apps more than a third of children surveyed for the report said they had received a message that made them feel uncomfortable. one in 10 talk to strangers online, and one in 20 have shared videos or photos of themselves with strangers. ms longfield said the report "shows how vigilant parents need to be, but also how the tech giants are failing to regulate themselves and so are failing to keep children safe". she is calling on the government to make the big tech firms responsible when it introduces the long-delayed online harms bill, with large fines for companies that breach their "duty of care". she has warned against classifying  encryption  messaging as "private communications". doing so could offer an exemption for the tech giants on their duty of care, she said. that "could be a cynical attempt on the part of some tech firms to side-step sanctions and litigation" she warned. a spokesman for the department for digital, culture, media and sport responded: "children will be at the heart of our new online harms laws with tough sanctions on social media platforms that fail to protect young people from harm. "we are clear that firms should only implement end-to-end  encryption  if it can be done without preventing action against child abuse."  ever since mark zuckerberg announced in march 2019 that end-to-end  encryption  was going to become standard across facebook's messaging platforms, the criticism of the plan has got ever louder.  mr zuckerberg himself has admitted that the move could harm the fight against child abuse. "you're fighting that battle with at least a hand tied behind your back," he told a facebook staff meeting.  now the children's commissioner has joined those warning of the damaging effects of making messages too secret.  but her broadside may be aimed less at the tech firms than at the government, which she and other critics feel has dragged its heels on the issue of regulating online content.  a year and a half after the publication of  the online harms white paper, there is still no clarity about when it will be turned into law and what sort of sanctions might be in it.  this week saw labour's margaret hodge, a victim of online abuse, call for either an end to anonymity on social media or for directors of the platforms to be made liable for defamatory posts.  the critics' shopping list for measures against the tech giants is getting longer. meanwhile, ministers must try to work out what is practicable as well as desirable. the commissioner says that end-to-end  encryption  should not be applied at all to children's accounts, and that tech companies should "retain the ability to scan for child sexual abuse material". "it's time for the government to show it hasn't lost its nerve and that it is prepared to stand up to the powerful internet giants, who are such a big part in our children's lives," she said. digital rights organisations, however, have long argued that  encryption  is essential. the open rights group accuses the government of using the online harms bill to weaken security for everyone, warning that a ban on  encryption  "would create a degree of surveillance and government intrusion that simply should not be tolerated in a democratic society". the electronic frontier foundation, meanwhile, says  encryption  "is one of the most powerful tools individuals have for maintaining their digital privacy and security in an increasingly insecure world". facebook, as the owner of three messaging apps, said that child exploitation has "no place on our platforms" and that it has been "developing news ways" to prevent and detect abuse. but it remains in favour of  encryption , with added anti-abuse features. "end-to-end  encryption  is already the leading technology used by many services to keep people safe", a spokesman said. "through a combination of advanced technology and user reports, whatsapp bans around 250,000 accounts each month suspected of sharing child exploitative imagery."  a man who posed as teenage girls online and blackmailed 51 boys into sending him indecent images of themselves has been jailed for 25 years. david wilson, 36, of kirstead, king's lynn, norfolk, admitted 96 offences in november at ipswich crown court. in some cases he threatened to share indecent images of the boys online unless they sent him footage of them abusing younger siblings or friends. the judge described wilson as "extremely dangerous" and "sadistic". the court heard some of the children who were groomed to abuse others had been arrested and one was now in a children's home. wilson's victims were aged between four and 14 and his crimes took place between 2016 and 2020, the national crime agency (nca) said. he won their trust by sending sexual images of young women in exchange for photographs and videos of the victims themselves. the 'prolific' sex offender who posed as a girlsexual abuser blackmailed boys using facebookman in court over 96 child sexual abuse charges wilson then used these images to blackmail his victims into sending more extreme content. the nca said he distributed images to some of his victims' friends, despite them begging him to stop, and some children spoke of wanting to end their lives as a result. sentencing, judge rupert overbury described wilson as a "serial paedophile" and "an extremely dangerous individual". "you carried out a lengthy and premeditated campaign of sadistic and manipulative abuse of young boys using social media," he said. "any decent human being will be astonished at the level of depravity involved." one child was groomed while struggling with the effects of his father dying from cancer, the judge said. another pleaded for wilson to stop as his grandfather was about to die but this had no effect on his abuser, he added. wilson pleaded guilty to 54 counts of causing or inciting a child under 13 to engage in sexual activity, 25 counts of causing or inciting a child to engage in sexual activity, 10 counts of causing a child to watch a sexual act, three counts of blackmail and four counts of arranging or facilitating the sexual exploitation of a child. he was ordered to serve a further eight years of extended licence once he is released from prison. officers began compiling intelligence on wilson after facebook identified 20 accounts of boys ranging from 12 to 15 years old, who had sent images of themselves to an account seemingly belonging to a 13-year-old girl. the mother of one of wilson's victims spoke of her concern over facebook's plan to bring in end-to-end  encryption  of messages on the platform. "i'm eternally grateful that david wilson was caught," she said. "i think that if it becomes too difficult for law enforcement agencies to track these people then we won't be able to protect our children and people like him will be able to get away with it." a spokeswoman for facebook said: "child exploitation and grooming have no place on our platform. "facebook has led the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect, and respond to abuse and we will continue to work with law enforcement to combat criminal activity." home secretary priti patel said: "this sickening case is a chilling reminder of how crucial it is that tech companies play their part in combating child sexual abuse. "it is vital that facebook do not press ahead without amending their current end-to-end- encryption  plans, otherwise sick criminals like david wilson could still be abusing children with impunity." tony cook, head of child sexual abuse operations at the nca, said wilson "preyed" on his victims' "vulnerability". "he groomed, bullied and blackmailed young boys into sending him indecent images and in some instances performing horrific abuse on themselves and others," he said. "despite knowing their utter anguish and despair he ignored their pleas from him to stop." mr cook urged parents to speak to their children about who they communicate with online and understand "this can happen to anyone". find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk a court in moscow has approved a request from the russian media regulator to block the telegram messaging app immediately. the media regulator sought to block the app because the firm had refused to hand over  encryption  keys used to scramble messages. security officials say they need to monitor potential terrorists. but the company said the way the service was built meant it had no access to customers'  encryption  keys. telegram had missed a deadline of 4 april to hand over the keys. russia's main security agency, the fsb, has said telegram is the messenger of choice for "international terrorist organisations in russia". a suicide bomber who killed 15 people on a subway train in st petersburg last april used the app to communicate with accomplices, the fsb said last year. the app is also widely used by the russian authorities, reuters news agency reports. in its court filing, media regulator roskomnadzor said telegram had failed to comply with its legal requirements as a "distributor of information".  telegram's lawyer, pavel chikov, said the official attempt to stop the app being used in russia was "groundless". "the fsb's requirements to provide access to private conversations of users are unconstitutional, baseless, which cannot be fulfilled technically and legally," he said. the messaging app is widely used across russia and many nations in the middle east, as well as around the rest of the world. it says it has more than 200 million active users.  its popularity has grown because of its emphasis on  encryption , which thwarts many widely used methods of reading confidential communications. it allows groups of up to 5,000 people to send messages, documents, videos and pictures without charge and with complete  encryption . telegram has been used by the islamic state (is) group and its supporters though the company says it has made efforts to close down pro-is channels. the major technology companies must step up their fight against extremism or face new laws, the home secretary has told the bbc. amber rudd said technology companies were not doing enough to beat “the enemy” on the internet.   encryption  tools used by messaging apps had become a “problem”, she added. ms rudd is meeting with representatives from google, facebook, twitter, microsoft and others at a counter-terrorism forum in san francisco. tuesday’s summit is the first gathering of the global internet forum to counter terrorism, an organisation set up by the major companies in the wake of recent terror attacks. in a joint statement, the companies taking part said they were co-operating to “substantially disrupt terrorists' ability to use the internet in furthering their causes, while also respecting human rights”.  whatsapp must not be 'place for terrorists to hide'euro mps back end-to-end  encryption  for all citizensaustralian pm seeks access to  encryption  messages ms rudd is expected to tell companies that extremists should not be allowed to upload content at all. "that’s what we’re really trying to achieve," she told the bbc. "what [technology companies] have been saying to us is using artificial intelligence, they’re beginning to make progress in that way.”  privacy rights group the electronic frontier foundation has expressed concern about the possibility of heavy-handed blocking of content.  it said such a move would have a significant impact on free speech online.  encryption  - a common feature of business and personal communications - was "the duct-tape that holds the internet together", said ross anderson, cryptography expert at the university of cambridge. he added that he was worried authorities and silicon valley firms were making an agreement behind closed doors that would ultimately undermine security. end-to-end in recent years, messaging services, including facebook, apple, and google, have adopted end-to-end  encryption , an added layer of complexity that makes it almost impossible for messages to be accessed without a user’s permission. the measure has been heralded by the technology companies as a vital tool for privacy. but authorities around the world say end-to-end  encryption  has created unreachable parts of the internet. ms rudd told the bbc that the uk government supported  encryption , with caveats. "we support its place in making sure that we have secure facilities in our daily lives,” the home secretary said. "however, there is a problem in terms of the growth of end-to-end  encryption . "it’s a problem for the security services and for police who are not, under the normal way, under properly warranted paths, able to access that information. “we want [technology companies] to work more closely with us on end-to-end  encryption , so that where there is particular need, where there is targeted need, under warrant, they share more information with us so that we can access it.” she said companies should give up more metadata about messages being sent via their services.  metadata refers to information about a conversation - such as who took part, when and for how long - but not the contents itself. when pressed on what kind of metadata she wanted, she replied: “i’m having those conversations in private.” technology companies are likely to resist any action that would result in them being seen to be sharing too much data with governments.  in an interview with bbc radio 4's desert island discs programme, facebook's chief operating officer, sheryl sandberg, warned about pushing criminals into even harder to reach parts of the internet. "if people move off those  encryption  services to go to  encryption  services in countries that won't share the metadata, the government actually has less information, not more," she said. blocking uploads ms rudd said if the companies did not take it upon themselves to clamp down on the spread of extremist content, new legislation could be introduced.  “none of this material should be online. they need to take ownership over making sure it isn’t,” ms rudd told the bbc.  "it’s governments that need to urge them to really take action so that we don’t have to go down the road of legislation - and get them to do it on a voluntary but urgent basis.  “legislation is always an alternative.” specifically, the home secretary said, companies must seek to block material at source - building on efforts already put in place by companies such as facebook.  “they have to make sure the material terrorists want to put up gets taken down,” she said, "or, even better, doesn’t go up in the first place." david greene, from the electronic frontier foundation, said rights campaigners were concerned this approach would lead to content being blocked incorrectly.  “we’re concerned that it’s going to lead to more takedowns,” he said, "not more terrorist content but more content that’s mistaken for terrorist content being taken down.”  ___________ follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc you can reach dave securely through  encryption  messaging app signal on: +1 (628) 400-7370 facebook has a stored copy of your private messages because it doesn't use end-to-end  encryption  - and it's not the only one.  encryption  scrambles messages so that if they're intercepted while being delivered they cannot be read.  most messaging services use a level of  encryption , but there are different types. twitter, instagram and snapchat are other services that don't use end-to- encryption . facebook messenger  encryption  messages by default from the sender to its server, and then  encryption  them again between the server and the recipient.  end-to-end  encryption , used by whatsapp, doesn't have the stop in between.  usually the only people with the 'key' to decipher an end-to-end  encryption  message are the sender and the intended recipient.  the messaging service can't read the message. it's particularly useful for sending sensitive information like bank details, which you wouldn't want to fall into the wrong hands or be stored anywhere online. there's been a big discussion about end-to-end  encryption  and the problems it causes for policing.  khalid masood accessed whatsapp moments before he killed four people in the westminster terror attack. he also used imessage and sms. after the attack, home secretary amber rudd called it "completely unacceptable" that the security services couldn't access some of the content - and said "there should be no place for terrorists to hide". at the time, a whatsapp spokeswoman said the company was "horrified at the attack" and was co-operating with the investigation. but since then, amber rudd has repeated her call for messaging services to work more closely with government to stop criminals misusing apps. whatsapp, which is owned by facebook, added end-to-end  encryption  by default in 2016, with facebook saying that protecting private communication was one of its "core beliefs". but its native facebook messenger doesn't have the same levels of security.  you have to specifically enable something called "secret conversation" within the messenger app in order for your conversations to have end-to-end  encryption . facebook-owned instagram does not use end-to-end  encryption  on the photo-sharing app, which introduced private messaging in 2013. twitter doesn't either, while there's nothing on snapchat's website to suggest messages on the app are completely  encryption . its support page does say that most messages are deleted from its servers after a maximum 30 days. and skype, which also has no information on end-to-end  encryption  on its website, has been trialling a "private conversation" option with some users. newsbeat has contacted snapchat and skype for clarification. well, as mentioned above the main player in end-to-end  encryption  messaging is whatsapp, but apple also uses it. its 'approach to privacy' document says it "uses end-to-end  encryption  to protect your imessage and facetime conversations" across all devices. but apple also allows users to send messages as a text if the imessage won't go through, and text messages are not end-to-end  encryption .  a lot of messaging services, like imessage, allow you to back up to the cloud, which gives those cloud services access to your messages.  follow newsbeat on instagram, facebook and twitter. listen to newsbeat live at 12:45 and 17:45 every weekday on bbc radio 1 and 1xtra - if you miss us you can listen back here. a scottish man has denied being involved in serious organised crime, including the murder of a dutch crime writer. christopher hughes, 32, faces three charges which span an eight-year period between december 2011 and january 2020. they include the killing of martin kok, 49, who was shot dead at a sex club in the dutch town of laren in 2016. donald findlay qc pled not guilty on behalf of mr hughes during a short hearing at the high court in glasgow. the indictment against mr hughes alleges he was involved with others in "serious organised crime" with locations including scotland, portugal, spain, france, germany, italy as well as holland. it is said he was involved in the importation of cocaine and possessed firearms with the intention of supplying weapons to individuals. the charge also claims mr hughes concealed money - described as "criminal property" - and that cash was used to pay for weddings, school fees, holidays, watches and cars. it is further stated " encryption " devices - created to help hide illegal activities from the authorities - were supplied to others named in the charge, including the late mr kok. the second charge accuses mr hughes of being involved in the supply of cocaine. the final accusation details the alleged murder of mr kok in december 2016. mr hughes is alleged to have been involved in the killing with a named individual and others. mr findlay told the court investigations into the case were ongoing.  no trial was set but lady stacey fixed another hearing for may. uk intelligence agency gchq intends to use artificial intelligence to tackle issues from child sexual abuse to disinformation and human trafficking.  the uk's adversaries were already using the technology, it said. the agency has published a paper, ethics of ai: pioneering a new national security, saying the technology will be put at the heart of its operations. and officials say it will help analysts spot patterns hidden inside large - and fast growing - amounts of data.  this could include: trying to spot fake online messages used by other states spreading disinformationmapping international networks engaged in human or drug traffickingfinding child sex abusers hiding their identities online but it cannot predict human behaviour such as moving towards executing a terrorist attack. the paper also sets out how gchq wants to support the ai sector, including setting up an industry-facing ai lab from its manchester office, dedicated to prototyping projects and mentoring start-ups. and gchq says it details how it will ensure it uses ai fairly and transparently, including: an ai ethical code of practice recruiting more diverse talent to help develop and govern its use  it is a sign the agency wants to avoid a repeat of criticism people were unaware how it used data, following whistleblower edward snowden's revelations. "while this unprecedented technological evolution comes with great opportunity, it also poses significant ethical challenges for all of society, including gchq," the agency's director, jeremy fleming, said.  "today, we are setting out our plan and commitment to the ethical use of ai in our mission.  "i hope it will inspire further thinking at home and abroad about how we can ensure fairness, transparency and accountability to underpin the use of ai."  it comes as the government prepares to publish its integrated review into security, defence, development and foreign policy, in which technology, including ai, is expected to play a central role.  gchq outlined areas where adversaries were already using ai, including: a growing number of states are using ai to automate the production of false content to affect public debate, including "deepfake" video and audio, gchq warns.  the technology can individually target and personalise this content or spread it through chatbots or by interfering with social-media algorithms.  but it could also help gchq detect and fact-check it and identify "troll farms" and  malicious-bot  accounts. gchq says ai could: help analyse evidence of grooming in chat roomstrack the disguised identities of offenders across multiple accountsdiscover hidden people and illegal services on the dark web help police officers infiltrate rings of offenders filter content to prevent analysts from being unnecessarily exposed to disturbing imagery increasingly used to automate cyber-attacks, ai could also help identify  malware  and attackers as they continually develop new tactics to breach systems and steal data, gchq says. organised crime groups are becoming increasingly sophisticated in their use of technology, including  encryption  tools, the dark web and cryptocurrency, gchq says. but ai could help: mapping the international networks that enable trafficking - identifying individuals, accounts and transactions "following the money" - analysing complex transactions, possibly revealing state sponsors or links to terrorist groups bringing together different types of data - such as imagery and messaging - to track and predict where illegal cargos are being delivered the us deputy attorney general says the use of "warrant-proof  encryption " in popular apps and operating systems, is hampering law enforcement. several apps encryption communications end-to-end, which stop messages being legible if intercepted by criminals or law enforcement. in a speech, rod rosenstein said law enforcers were increasingly thwarted by such  encryption . he met home secretary amber rudd on thursday to discuss the issue. he will also meet the head of the uk's gchq intelligence agency. "increasingly, the tools we use to collect evidence run up against  encryption  tools which are designed to defeat them," said mr rosenstein, speaking at the global cyber security summit in london. he said the united states was "co-ordinating with our foreign partners as to what the challenges are". with end-to-end  encryption , messages are scrambled when they leave the sender's device and are decrypted only on the receiver's device. it means service providers such as whatsapp cannot hand over a legible copy of a suspect's messages to law enforcement, because they do not have one. mr rosenstein said technology companies often "resisted co-operating with governments". ms rudd has also described  encryption  tools used by messaging apps as a "problem". in august, she met representatives from google, facebook, twitter, microsoft and others at a counter-terrorism forum in san francisco. she called on companies to work "more closely" with the government but said she did not want to "weaken  encryption ". national power will be defined not by the number of tanks and ships a country possesses but by its science and technology, and the quality of its algorithms. that is the message of the uk's integrated review, which says the government's aim is for the country to become an innovation "superpower" by 2030. "this will be essential in gaining economic, political and security advantages in the coming decade," it says. it marks a major strategic shift in thinking. but delivery will not be straightforward. a global tech race is heating up.  china this month announced its latest five-year plan, including significant increases in research and development spending. it highlighted seven areas including: artificial intelligence (ai)quantum informationbrain sciencesemiconductorsbiotechnologyneuroscienceaerospace the biden administration, meanwhile, is focusing on maintaining america's edge. a report this month led by former google chief executive eric schmidt focused on the security risks of falling behind china in ai. wars of the future may involve ai algorithms battling each other. the first nation to master this and other technologies may not just have a significant military advantage on the battlefield, but also in protecting its people at home and in spurring economic growth.  that is why the uk's review says its "first goal" is growing the uk's science and technology power "in pursuit of strategic advantage". "we need to generate strength through technological innovation," former mi6 chief alex younger told the bbc. some of this focuses on traditional areas. at least £6.6bn of defence funding over the next four years will go on research and development.  some of this will support industries in particular regions of the uk - a sign of the fusing of security and economic priorities.  in addition, a national space strategy will be launched, as well as a new cyber-strategy that could see more frequent use of offensive capabilities by the new national cyber force.  uk investment will be dwarfed by china and the us. but the ambition is that a more activist, industrial policy can create "thriving ecosystems" in crucial areas.  three fields are picked out for case studies. one is quantum computing, where the review argues the uk is "well placed to emerge as a global leader".  the much-heralded quantum breakthrough will offer major advantages to those who get there first. this includes one field governments do not talk about: breaking the  encryption  which keeps messages secret. another is engineering biology - the design and redesign of biological systems through techniques like gene editing.  this has potential for health and environmental benefits but also, as the report notes, defence and security.  us intelligence officials have suggested china was exploring gene-editing its soldiers to improve their performance. the third is ai. the uk is home to cutting-edge research. but critics also say it highlights some of the historic problems in commercialising domestic innovation.  london-based deepmind is world-class, but sold itself to google. the us may be a close ally, but there are still officials who believe the shift of ownership represented a strategic loss. the failure to take uk research and grow tech giants from it is not a new problem.  the uk built the first semi-programmable computer in world war two to break codes at bletchley park.  but it did so in secret and the computing industry it led to has been limited in terms of scale. by contrast the us, with a revolving door between government and the private sector, massive investment from the pentagon and spy agencies, and a larger domestic market, created silicon valley. there is also a question about where it will be practical to try to convince what is a highly international workforce at uk companies and universities, to work on defence and security-related projects. in the us, a staff revolt led google to pull out of project maven which wanted to use ai to tag objects in drone-collected video.  other us companies have been more willing to work with the pentagon. but copying the military-civil fusion that china talks about may not be either desirable or possible. one criticism of the review is that it tries to have it both ways with china - stressing the need to be open to beijing for trade and investment, while also engaging in systemic competition.  this is not always easy. last year's decision to effectively kick out huawei from 5g telecoms showed hard choices are sometimes involved. in areas like 5g, the focus today is not just on developing cutting-edge technology, but also in setting global standards and rules for the future. and here china has invested heavily. the uk will need to work hard with allies to catch up and convince other countries to share its vision.   that is just one of the areas where becoming a science and tech superpower may be a tough promise to deliver on. whatsapp is pushing ahead with controversial changes to its terms of service, but altering the way it notifies users following a backlash.  after its first announcement in january, millions of users downloaded apps from whatsapp's competitors. the facebook-owned platform previously said it had been the victim of "misinformation" around the change. but whatsapp now says it has "reflected" on how it could have explained the changes better. the phrasing of the warning in the initial push led to widespread fears that it was going to share large amounts of whatsapp data with facebook.  in reality, very little had changed in that area - and almost all users had previously accepted the type of data sharing involved. as part of its second attempt to convince users, whatsapp will begin displaying a banner alert within the app in the coming weeks. it encourages users to learn more about the update and what is - and is not - changing. messages informing users of the update will also be displayed in the status section of the app. the new terms are scheduled to come into effect on 15 may. whatsapp says the data it shares with its parent company does not include messages, groups or call logs.   instead, it says the new terms focus on changes to allow users to message businesses.  whatsapp already shares information with facebook, such as your ip address and information about your phone, as well as purchases made via the platform.  however this does not apply in europe and the uk, where different privacy laws exist.   but privacy experts say the saga highlights how unaware users are of how their data is being used. "in its efforts to clarify that [it] isn't doing anything wrong, whatsapp has in fact inadvertently highlighted that it was already harvesting huge amounts of data for facebook," said ray walsh, a digital privacy expert at proprivacy. that "vindicates" those who decided to leave whatsapp, he said. "the biggest takeaway from all of this is that whatsapp was already harvesting device level identifiers, ip addresses, and purchase info on behalf of facebook - and that until recent media attention, the general public was largely unaware." signal messaging service restored after outageus regulators open privacy probes into tech giants whatsapp said it had "reflected on what we could have done better here". “we want everyone to know our history of defending end-to-end  encryption , and trust we’re committed to protecting people’s privacy and security." it also said it will "be doing much more" to be clear about changes in the future. in january, government officials in india asked the messaging giant to withdraw its planned changes.  the country is currently whatsapp's largest market with more than 340 million users.  they were lured in by messages seemingly from a teenage girl. from there, the young victims were not only enticed into sharing sexualised images of themselves but in some cases blackmailed to commit abuse by proxy on their younger siblings. how was david wilson - the man behind the teenage girl mask - eventually caught? david wilson, a roofer who lived at his mother's norfolk home, was "one of the most prolific offenders" the national crime agency (nca) had ever come across. from his bedroom in kirstead in king's lynn, the 36-year-old built a web of false personas to target thousands of children both in the uk and abroad. at ipswich crown court on wednesday, wilson was sentenced to 25 years for 96 child sex offences. as many as 500 victims sent him images. one of them told the bbc how they felt "trapped inside his game". and yet the first concerns about wilson's behaviour came not from the victims themselves, or from police intelligence - but from a facebook algorithm. those involved in bringing him to justice now fear whether facebook plans to use end-to-end  encryption  might mean people like wilson might evade justice in the future. wilson's modus operandi was deception and blackmail. he created fake personas of young girls and then used pre-paid mobile telephones to target boys, the majority of whom were aged between 11 and 13 years old, via social media. "once he made contact, he coerced those children to abuse themselves or others and produce images of that abuse," said rob jones, director of the national crime agency.  "as soon as wilson established a relationship he would incite and blackmail and really try to establish control over that child by threatening them to a whole range of different tactics which were designed to allow him to control the child to commit abuse and and to victimise other children." once he had a compromising image of a child, wilson would then use it to blackmail the victim into sending increasingly extreme imagery of themselves or, in some cases, to commit sexual abuse - or "contact offending by proxy" - on their siblings. one of his victims was just four years old. "it is happening in people's homes - created by people like wilson, who is able to do it remotely because of access to social media platforms and the use of false personas," said mr jones. the case against him involved 51 boys. but officers unearthed hundreds of victims who had been lured into sending images of themselves by wilson. "those he was abusing had no idea who he was," said mr jones. by the time wilson was charged, officers had evidence of seven fake female identities, 14 separate social media accounts and five pre-paid mobile telephones.  all had one user - david wilson. one of his victims is now 16 years old. he was 11 when he was first contacted by wilson. "i was completely unaware of dangerous people online and in the world," the boy said. when he set up his social media account he had a number of friends on there - and a girl purporting to be about 12 years old. "she contacted me and i had a look at her account to see what she looked like. she looked like a normal girl, about my age, and it didn't concern me, and she also talked and approached me in a way that was very normal," he said. "it didn't alarm me so i decided to carry on talking to her thinking it was just a girl my age. over time, i was attracted to this person who i thought was a pretty young girl, but as it progressed i began to feel very alarmed by the way they started to talk to me. "i was concerned that this wasn't a girl and i was very scared. i kept on asking him to leave me alone and the only way he would leave me alone was if i sent him indecent images." in a desperate bid to free himself from wilson, the boy agreed to send some sexual images of himself. two years later the boy was approached by a second "girl" online. the boy asked her to leave him alone but the "girl" refused and said they had indecent images of him from two years ago. "i was very, very scared," the boy said. "she requested more indecent images and if not [supplied] she would spread it all across the internet, despite knowing i was extremely frightened. "i was trapped inside his game." tony cook, the nca's head of child exploitation and online protection, said: "these children and their families had their lives turned upside down - some of them never recover psychologically. "i must pay tribute to the bravery of the people who came forward. they've been very patient with us. "he was getting them to do very, very depraved and degrading acts. "it doesn't bear thinking about what he was having those children do." the social media giant facebook uses an algorithm to "scan" messages sent over its platform. "they are able to detect the type of behaviour in messaging and in the exchange of images which is indicative as the sexual abuse of children," said mr jones. "they are really, really good at that." intelligence from facebook was shared with the nca in 2017 which identified 20 accounts of boys aged between 12 and 15 years old sending indecent images of themselves to an account of a 13-year-old girl. wilson's case was one of 90 referrals made to the nca from facebook, via the us national centre for missing and exploited children. from the information from facebook, detectives were able to put together their case. the ip addresses used to commit the crimes were linked to his mother's home. they had cctv footage of him buying a top-up voucher for a phone linked to one of his fake accounts. and when he was arrested in august 2017, the telephone used to commit some of the offences was found hidden in his bedroom. but at that stage, the full scale of wilson's offending remained unclear. officers wanted to examine evidence from his snapchat, google and instagram accounts too. that involved filing an international letter of request to the us authorities. it was nearly two years before the nca received its data trove from the us. it contained more than 250,000 messages for detectives to pore over. it revealed wilson's victims lived across the uk, the us and australia. by the time wilson was charged for crimes committed between 2016 and 2020, he had been arrested on four separate occasions. he admitted to all 96 offences at ipswich crown court in november 2020, but all those crimes took place after he was first arrested by norfolk police on 4 april 2015. that arrest was connected with two counts of possessing indecent images of children. no action at that stage was taken by police. responding to the bbc's questions about that first arrest, a spokesperson for norfolk constabulary said: "officers carried out a search of the property and investigated the matter, however found no evidence to link him to the crimes and consequently no action was taken.  "due to ongoing concerns around safeguarding, he was subject to further measures through a multi-agency local authority designated officer meeting where a referral was made to the disclosure and barring service. "this meant employers would be informed of the concerns and the football association were also made aware as he had connections to children's football." but it did not stop his offending - not even after the national crime agency got involved. the nca arrested wilson three times during its three-year investigation - in august 2017, january 2018 and finally in april 2020. "he continued to offend even when we'd arrested him. and we arrested him three times, so he was a pretty determined individual," said mr cook of the nca. "he's been grooming and preying on very vulnerable young children and getting them to send him very indecent imagery of themselves and doing very degrading acts and then blackmailing them.  "i don't think you get more despicable than that, do you?" but the nca said it was not in a position to charge him before 2020. "when you're dealing with somebody who has given a fake identification we have to be 100% certain that that person we arrest and charge is the person who is behind the fake identities," said mr cook. "that takes a lot of time. it is just one of those things - you've got to piece together the evidence like a jigsaw puzzle until you can prove that the fake identities are linked to david wilson." the nca now feared whether it will be able to bring people like wilson to justice in the future. its concerns, the agency said, stem from proposals within facebook to use end-to-end  encryption  in its messenger platform. mr jones said had such  encryption  been in place in 2017 it would have been "highly unlikely" wilson would have been caught. "had that content been end-end- encryption , there is a real risk that justice would not have been served and wilson would still be abusing victims today," he said. a spokesman for facebook said: "facebook has led the industry in developing new ways to prevent, detect, and respond to abuse and we will continue to work with law enforcement to combat criminal activity." the company told the bbc child exploitation had "no place" on its platforms and said it would "build on" the "strong anti-abuse capabilities" of one of its platforms (whatsapp) when it rolled out end-to-end  encryption  in its other messaging services. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk cyber-security has become an increasing concern following a number of recent high profile computer hacking cases around the world.quantum  encryption  could offer much more security. but how close are we to quantum computing becoming the norm?bbc click finds out more. references to decades-old computer software are included in the new brexit agreement, including a description of netscape communicator and mozilla mail as being "modern" services. experts believe officials must have copied and pasted chunks of text from old legislation into the document. the references are on page 921 of the trade deal, in a section on  encryption  technology. it also recommends using systems that are now vulnerable to cyber-attacks. the text cites "modern e-mail software packages including outlook, mozilla mail as well as netscape communicator 4.x." the latter two are now defunct - the last major release of netscape communicator was in 1997. the document also recommends using 1024-bit rsa  encryption  and the sha-1 hashing algorithm, which are both outdated and vulnerable to cyber-attacks. "it's clear that something is amiss in the drafting of this treaty, and we'd go so far as to venture the opinion that a tired civil servant simply cut-and-pasted from a late-1990s security document," news site hackaday commented. several people have suggested the words were copied from a 2008 eu law, which includes the same text. prof bill buchanan, a cryptography expert at edinburgh napier university, said there was "little excuse" for the outdated references. "i believe this looks like a standard copy-and-paste of old standards, and with little understanding of the technical details. "the text is full of acronyms, and it perhaps needs more of a lay person's explanation to define the requirements." although sha-1 and 1024-bit rsa "were a good selection a decade or so ago, they are no longer up to modern security standards," he added. the brexit negotiations finally ended on christmas eve, with a deal which was more than 1,200 pages long. ambassadors from the 27 eu member states have unanimously approved the eu-uk post-brexit trade deal. the uk parliament is expected to approve it on wednesday, paving the way for it to take effect provisionally on 1 january ahead of a european parliament vote. the home office said the paragraphs "set out the legally prescribed measures for cooperation." "we currently use the latest technology to share this data, which is properly protected and in line with the guidance from the national cyber security centre," a spokesman added. a gang selling ecstasy around the world on the dark web has been "dismantled", police have said. two men from south tyneside have been arrested on suspicion of importing and supplying drugs. the national crime agency (nca) has been investigating after parcels of mdma destined for europe, asia and the usa were intercepted last summer. operations manager martin clarke said the gang had been "preying on the vulnerable and destroying communities". "this investigation shows that those who try to use the dark web and  encryption  communication devices to anonymously commit crimes can be identified," he said. drugs with a street value of £4.3m had been recovered, including mdma, amphetamines and more than 6,000 diazepam (alprazolam) tablets, the agency said. officers seized mobile phones, computers and drug packaging paraphernalia.  encryption  messages were analysed to identify those selling drugs and laundering money using cryptocurrency. the drugs were being imported from holland and then sold on the dark web under four names: hundredsuk, hundredsandthousands, sundaefundae, and 100and1000s. two men, aged 24 and 31, have been arrested in south shields and hebburn on suspicion of importing and supplying class a, b and c drugs. officers searched other addresses in south shields and an address in epsom, surrey. the agency was still looking for two people from south shields who are believed to be overseas, it said. follow bbc north east & cumbria on twitter, facebook and instagram. send your story ideas to northeastandcumbria@bbc.co.uk. the former head of gchq has said that cooperation between government agencies and private companies is the best solution "to target the people who are abusing  encryption  systems."robert hannigan warned on the today programme that "building back doors" in  encryption  systems was "a threat to everybody" and suggested that the government and private companies work more closely together to tackle the problem. an italian man in germany has been sentenced to three years in prison for threatening to bomb nhs hospitals, black lives matter rallies and uk mps. emil apreda, 33, sent emails from berlin demanding £10m worth of bitcoin to not carry out the attacks. the national crime agency said he made his threats in the spring and summer of 2020 as the nhs struggled with covid. senior officers kept the threats from the public for fear of patients being scared into not attending hospitals.  apreda used  encryption  techniques and the dark web in an attempt to hide his identity, but police brought in behavioural, linguistics and cyber-crime experts to track him down.  he sent emails to the nhs pretending to be a far-right activist linked to the neo-nazi group combat 18, but police believe that was just a ruse to instil fear.  he was finally identified by german detectives and armed officers raided his home in berlin on 15 june last year.  uk facing 'nasty mix' of threats, says mi5 chiefpandemic 'exposes' uk security planning gaps for the first time, the nca has revealed details of the case, calling it "one of the most significant threats we've seen for some time" which took place at a time of "deep and heightened anxiety" in the uk.  tim court, the nca's head of investigations, said the content of the emails was "so threatening and so damaging" that it was only disclosed to a "very tight circle of people - and i mean very tight" within the police and government.  meanwhile, security at hospitals was quietly stepped up.  mr court said the risks were both of loss of life and a loss of confidence in the nhs.  "at the height of this, we were losing nearly nearly 1,000 people a day - and for six weeks we're trying to manage somebody who could have been planting a bomb in a hospital, somewhere in the uk." a particular concern was that many patients were on ventilators or oxygen at the time, and it would have been more difficult to get them out of a hospital in the event of a credible bomb threat.   the extortion campaign started on 26 april when apreda sent an email to the nhs, making his demand for bitcoin and warning that he would send a bomb in a package to a hospital in the uk if he was not paid.  this was followed by an identical email to an nca control centre, followed by 16 more over six weeks.  during that period, the death of george floyd in the us and resulting protests in the uk prompted threats from him to blow up black lives matter demonstrations.  finally, as the fourth anniversary of the murder of labour mp jo cox by a far-right activist approached, he emailed that he would kill mps - but did not name any. police behavioural and linguistics experts drew up a profile of the extortionist, who they decided was not from the uk.  police say further "technical leads" pointed to germany. he was finally identified by lka, the german cid. apreda had been issuing deadlines for payment after which he said he would attack, so the day before the anniversary of ms cox's death, german police moved in, blowing open the front door of his berlin flat and arresting him.  police say he has background in computing, but they have discovered no links to combat 18, despite his claims.  the far-right group has been active in the uk in the past, but now exists mainly in the us and germany. apreda was charged and convicted of extortion in germany, but the nca said he could have faced terrorism charges if he had been brought to the uk.  the nca  said he had no links that they could find with britain, and therefore extraditing him had not been possible. it denied brexit had been a major factor. petya  ransomware  victims can now unlock infected computers without paying. an unidentified programmer has produced a tool that exploits shortfalls in the way the  malware   encryption  a file that allows windows to start up. in notes put on code-sharing site github, he said he had produced the key generator to help his father-in-law unlock his petya- encryption  computer. the  malware , which started circulating in large numbers in march, demands a ransom of 0.9 bitcoins (£265).  it hid itself in documents attached to emails purporting to come from people looking for work.  security researcher lawrence abrams, from the bleeping computer news site, said the key generator could unlock a petya- encryption  computer in seven seconds.  but the key generator requires victims to extract some information from specific memory locations on the infected drive.  and mr abrams said: "unfortunately, for many victims extracting this data is not an easy task."  this would probably involve removing the drive and then connecting it up to another computer-virus -free computer running windows, he said. another tool can then extract the data, which can be used on the website set up to help people unlock their computer. independent security analyst graham cluley said there had been other occasions when  ransomware  makers had "bungled" their  encryption  system.  ransomware , linux.encoder and one other  ransomware  variant were all rendered harmless when their scrambling schemes were reverse-engineered. "of course," said mr cluley, "the best thing is to have safety secured backups rather than relying upon  ransomware  criminals goofing up." a drug dealer caught after police cracked an  encryption  phone full of damning messages has been jailed for eight years. darren collin's arrest led to the seizure of £1.3m worth of heroin and cocaine as well as £517,000 in cash.  a berlingo van he was driving in glasgow was found to have a secret compartment used to smuggle drugs..  an  encryption  mobile also contained incriminating messages to collin, whose user name was "big poppa". collin was sentenced at the high court in glasgow having earlier admitted to being concerned in the supply of heroin and cocaine. the secret phone system broken up by the national crime agency he was brought to justice as part of the uk-wide operation venetic during which experts managed to crack the  encryption  used by encrochat - a global communication system used by criminals.  the court heard he was under police surveillance in april this year, and was seen driving an expensive audi sq7 before getting into the van.  he later carried out what appeared to be drug transactions including collecting three large tubs in the dawsholm road industrial estate near the city's anniesland. when he was stopped soon afterwards, mobile phones were found including a white v smart device which was  encryption . when decrypted, it emerged collin had texted "been caught" to an associate moments after he was stopped.  the device revealed collin was regularly in touch with 10 contacts who had nicknames including "icecream", "blackhorse", "magicstopper" and "tinthepark.com". prosecutor chris mckenna said: "there are further significant messages relating to what is assessed to be criminality such as images of white blocks. "these are potentially cocaine with different logos embossed as well as large sums of money and tick lists." the court heard there were also "detailed instructions" given to collin by a contact on how to package cash and where to drop it off. a flat in anniesland linked to collin was then raided where police found large consignments of heroin, cocaine, cash and substances used to bulk out drugs. other related equipment, including a hydraulic press,  were seized. the heroin was valued at £820,500 with the cocaine at £505,580. the judge, lord armstrong, said collin's level of involvement showed the drug operation was "organised and planned" and he would have received a 12-year sentence had it not been for his guilty plea. his defence counsel said collin had been hit with "financial difficulties" after a back injury affected his work as a lift engineer. frances connor qc said: "his father is a successful businessman, but he was too embarrassed to approach him for help. he does accept the foolishness of that." collin was also given a three-year serious crime prevention order designed to tackle and monitor criminals on their release from jail. welcoming the conviction, det ch supt philip chapman said: "we are absolutely committed to disrupting those involved in serious and organised crime in scotland.  "we recognise the impact this criminal activity has on individuals and the misery that it brings to our communities." so, there have been a few important developments since i published my story looking at the  encryption  debate surrounding how terror groups can communicate. first - messaging app telegram says it has blocked 78 accounts that were being used by the so-called islamic state group to communicate propaganda. it was "shocked" to learn the service was being used in this way. worth stressing, again, that the bbc reported this fact weeks ago. my colleagues at bbc monitoring told me that since the account closures, several new pro-is channels have been set up on telegram, rapidly amassing followers.  however, i've just checked one of these new channels and it has been disabled, suggesting telegram is, like many other apps, engaged in a cat-and-mouse game with extremists. second - the call for  encryption  backdoors has, as predicted, intensified. the manhattan district attorney has published a report demanding that a method to access passcode-locked phones be built in to ios and android, the two major players in mobile software. the document reads: "apple and google are not responsible for keeping the public safe. that is the job of law enforcement. "but the consequences of these companies' actions on the public safety are severe." my colleague chris baraniuk has been covering the report today.  read his story here. and finally, in paris, there's doubt that the attackers were using  encryption  messaging apps at all - according to the intercept, citing french newspaper le monde, communications about the atrocity were sent using bog-standard sms text messages.  follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc a european parliament committee is proposing that end-to-end  encryption  be enforced on all forms of digital communications to protect citizens.  the draft legislation seeks to protect sensitive personal data from hacking and government surveillance. eu citizens are entitled to personal privacy and this extends to online communications, the proposal argues. a ban on "backdoors" into  encryption  messaging apps like whatsapp and telegram is also being considered.  encryption  involves digitally scrambling a communication to protect its contents, and then using a digital key to reassemble the data. end-to-end  encryption  means the company providing the service does not have access to the key, meaning it cannot "listen in" to what is being shared - giving the sender and recipient added confidence in the privacy of their conversation. "the principle of confidentiality should apply to current and future means of communication, including calls, internet access, instant messaging applications, email, internet phone calls and personal messaging provided through social media," said a draft proposal drawn up for the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice, and home affairs. whatsapp's privacy protections questioned after terror attackjeremy corbyn and theresa may clash over security the proposal seeks to amend article seven of the eu's charter of fundamental rights to add online privacy. it will require approval by committee's members, the wider european parliament and the council of ministers before it can be passed into law. during the uk's recent election campaign, the conservative party said that tech firms should provide the authorities "access to information as required" to help combat online radicalisation, but ministers have also said they do not want to weaken  encryption . that has led to some confusion among tech industry leaders as to whether the government wants some kind of "backdoor", a way to have end-to-end  encryption  disabled in specific cases, or some other action. however, cyber-security experts warn that criminals can still find a way to protect their communications, even if end-to-end  encryption  is banned. "there are lots of existing techniques law enforcement can use," dr steven murdoch, a cyber-security researcher in the department of computer science at university college london told the bbc.  "one of them is traffic analysis, which is looking at patterns of communications, eg who is talking to who, when and from what location. "the other one is hacking - equipment interference in british law - which can happen before data is  encryption  and after it's been decrypted, so there are still ways for law enforcement to gain access to information."  in the manchester, westminster and london bridge terror attacks, the perpetrators were already known to uk security services, dr murdoch added. "they were not stopped because there were either insufficient resources or the resources were not sufficiently prioritised," he said. "the suggestions being considered by the uk government would be worse for computer security. so much of people's lives are now carried out online. we should have privacy online just as we have offline."  encryption  is a way of scrambling computer data so it can only be read by the people you want.it is an essential part of online shopping and banking, and can make emails and instant messages illegible if they are intercepted.  encryption  has been in the news recently. some governments want service providers to build backdoors into their  encryption  systems that would let law enforcement access suspects' data.the bbc's chris foxx explains how one type of  encryption  - public key  encryption  - can be useful in secure communications.  detectives have developed a new tactic to beat criminals using mobile phone  encryption  - legally "mug" them.  the tactic has emerged after scotland yard's cybercrime unit smashed a fake credit card fraud racket.  officers realised crucial evidence in the investigation was concealed on a suspect's iphone - but it would be unobtainable if the device was locked.  so a covert team seized it in the street while the suspect was on a call - beating the security settings.  the street seizure of the phone was dreamt up by detectives from operation falcon, the specialist metropolitan police team running investigations into major fraud and related crimes organised online.  gabriel yew had been under investigation for the suspected manufacture of fake cards that gangs were using across europe to buy luxury goods. detectives suspected that he was using an iphone exclusively to communicate to other members of the network but knew if they arrested him, he could refuse to unlock it and they would never see incriminating evidence. they considered whether they could legally force a suspect's finger or thumb on to the device's fingerprint reader to unlock it, but found they had no such power.  however, they concluded they could stage their own lawful "street robbery" - using a similar snatch technique to a thief - and in june a team set out to do precisely that.  undercover surveillance officers trailed yew and waited for him to unlock his phone to make a call - thereby disabling the  encryption .  one officer then rushed in to seize the phone from yew's hand - just as would happen in a criminal mugging. as his colleagues restrained the suspect, the officer continually "swiped" through the phone's screens to prevent it from locking before they had downloaded its data.  "the challenges of pin code access and  encryption  on some phones make it harder to access evidence in a timely fashion than ever before," said det ch insp andrew gould who led the operation.  "officers had to seize yew's phone from him in the street. this evidence was crucial to the prosecution." the phone revealed a motherlode of information on yew's efficient business-like practices. he had orders for fake cards and there was evidence linking him to four men who were subsequently convicted and a further 100 potential suspects.  detectives also uncovered yew's "factory" with thousands of blank credit cards ready to be programmed.  yew pleaded guilty to fraud and weapons offences and at a sentencing hearing this week at blackfriars crown court was jailed for five and a half years. a newry businessman has appeared in court after suspected herbal cannabis worth up to £10m was seized during a search at a haulage yard. gary mcgeown, 34, of belfast road, in newry, county down, appeared at court in newry via video-link. he is facing a number of drugs charges as well as a charge of converting criminal property. deputy district judge trevor browne refused bail, stating that it is "too dangerous" to consider at this time. the court heard that the charges arise from a search of mr mcgeown's business premises on tuesday. prosecution barrister robin steer told the court that during the search of a trailer containing ceramic tiles, police found bags of suspected cannabis.  some of the bags were found in what were described as "hides" inside the tile boxes.  the prosecution said that there were also empty boxes with hides found in the haulage yard. a search of mr mcgeown's home was also conducted.  a police officer told the court that during this search, three chargers for what police believe was an  encryption  phone were found. a phone was not found. the court heard that data obtained by french authorities had been passed to the national crime agency (nca) and subsequently to the police service of northern ireland (psni) which they believe connects mr mcgeown to the use of an  encryption  phone. the prosecution objected to bail stating that their main concern is the potential "obstruction of the police investigation". a defence barrister said that mr mcgeown had co-operated fully during interview.  he said that he had answered every question put to him and  "had exhibited the actions of a man with nothing to hide". the defence barrister added: "in terms of interfering with the investigation, the police already have everything.  "he has given them access to cctv and passcodes for phones.  "he has nothing to do with the contents of the trailer." however, deputy district judge trevor browne refused bail stating that it is "too dangerous at this stage to consider bail". mr mcgeown is to appear in court again on 28 april. instant messaging service whatsapp has announced it will encryption all its users' communications from tuesday. with end-to-end  encryption , messages are scrambled as they leave the sender's device and can only be decrypted by the recipient's device. it renders messages unreadable if they are intercepted, for example by criminals or law enforcement. whatsapp, which has a billion users worldwide, said file transfers and voice calls would be  encryption  too. the facebook-owned company said protecting private communication was one of its "core beliefs".  encryption  was thrown under the spotlight after the fbi asked apple to help it access data on an iphone used by california gunman syed farook. whatsapp said: "the idea is simple: when you send a message, the only person who can read it is the person or group chat that you send that message to. no one can see inside that message. not cybercriminals. not hackers. not oppressive regimes. not even us." users with the latest version of the app were notified about the change when sending messages on tuesday. the setting is enabled by default. amnesty international called the move a "huge victory" for free speech. "whatsapp's roll out of the signal protocol, providing end to end  encryption  for its one billion users worldwide, is a major boost for people's ability to express themselves and communicate without fear," the organisation said in a statement. "this is a huge victory for privacy and free speech, especially for activists and journalists who depend on strong and trustworthy communications to carry out their work without putting their lives at greater risk." whatsapp's decision was also welcomed by security professionals. "wire-tappers lament, law-abiding citizens rejoice, for whatsapp's latest update is a victory for communications privacy," said lee munson, a security researcher for comparitech.  "with the ability to access data removed even from the company behind the app, only ill-informed law enforcement agencies are likely to mutter 'terrorists' as the masses enjoy the  encryption  text messages, photos, video and phone calls they've been demanding ever since edward snowden blew the lid on government surveillance." the move is likely to irk law enforcement agencies, particularly the us department of justice which has recently expressed concern over "unreachable" information contained in devices. the doj did not respond to the bbc's request for comment on tuesday. indeed, fbi attorney james baker has reportedly criticised the move saying  encryption  threatens the work of law enforcement. "it has public safety costs. folks have to understand that, and figure out how they are going to deal with that," he said, according to the us news and world report news site. "do they want the public to bear those costs? do they want the victims of terrorism to bear those costs?" mr baker was speaking at the international association of privacy professionals summit. other messaging apps with end-to-end  encryption  include telegram, which is known to be used by the so-called islamic state to share information. weakening  encryption  in the wake of the paris terror attacks "does not make sense", say some of the world's biggest technology firms. a statement about  encryption  was released by the information technology industry council (itic) - a  policy body that represents tech giants. google, microsoft, facebook, samsung and many other computer industry firms are all itic members. it said  encryption  helped preserve safety and security every day. the itic is a global lobby and policy group that communicates the views of tech firms to politicians and legislative bodies. the statement comes after many politicians criticised the data-scrambling systems that tech firms are increasingly applying to hardware and services.  they have called for  encryption  to be weakened in order to help police and intelligence services catch criminals or thwart potential terror attacks. others want backdoors included in  encryption  software that would give law enforcement access to data that is otherwise locked away. but, said the itic, weakening  encryption  in a bid to help the "good guys" was a mistake. doing so "would actually create vulnerabilities to be exploited by the bad guys", it warned.  such a move "would almost certainly cause serious physical and financial harm across our society and our economy". "weakening security with the aim of advancing security simply does not make sense," said the itic. the indian government has withdrawn a draft  encryption  policy after public uproar over the proposed measures. it minister ravi shankar prasad said the proposals were released to the public without his knowledge. the new law would have forced indians to store plain-text versions of their  encryption  data for 90 days and make it available to security agencies. the draft policy sparked outrage on social media, as most messaging services use some form of  encryption . the  encryption  policy was proposed to enhance information security in india. on monday night the government exempted social media applications from the draft policy after social media outrage.  the "draft  encryption  policy is not the final view of the government. it will be redrawn to specify who it will apply to," mr prasad told reporters on tuesday. he said the purpose of the policy was "not related to social media messaging platforms used by the common man."  the draft said indians have until 16 october to weigh in on the proposed measures, and the government had said that the final policy would only be drafted after all feedback is taken into account. plain text files like a word document or email are not  encryption  and can be read by anyone. the pentagon has invited external experts to hack into its systems in the first such test of its cybersecurity measures. the method is often used by private companies that want to use the expertise of "friendly" hackers to find holes in their systems. it came after the us defence secretary backed strong  encryption  amid the fbi's phone unlocking row with apple. ash carter called on tech firms and the us government to work together. the us department of defense launched its hack the pentagon project on wednesday, inviting vetted outside hackers to test the security of some of its public websites. according to the reuters news agency, the programme will be modelled on the hacking bounties often run by firms, in which experts are offered incentives to identify and report security issues. the pentagon said it was also considering offering financial rewards. "i am confident that this innovative initiative will strengthen our digital defences and ultimately enhance our national security," mr carter said. the pentagon has long tested its own networks using internal so-called "red teams" but this initiative - the first such scheme to be run by the us federal government - would open at least some of its vast network of computer systems to cyberchallenges from across industry and academia. however, the pentagon said that other more sensitive networks or key weapons programs would not be included in the scheme, at least initially. "the goal is not to comprise any aspect of our critical systems, but to still challenge our cybersecurity in a new and innovative way," one senior defence official told reuters. the official said they expected thousands of qualified participants to sign up ahead of the pilot scheme's opening in april. during a visit to silicon valley on tuesday, mr carter underscored the us military's support for data security and strong  encryption . speaking on the day that both apple and the fbi appeared before the us congress over the former's refusal to help the latter overcome an iphone's  encryption  protection, he said that the pentagon viewed strong  encryption  as critical. reuters reported that mr carter declined to address a live case directly and said that no one case should drive policy decisions. but he did call for greater co-operation between silicon valley and washington on data security. he said that a failure to work together would allow china, russia and others who he said did not favour a free internet to set new global standards, according to the news agency. "we shouldn't let the solutions to this larger issue of how to handle data security as a society be driven by any one particular case," mr carter told reporters after a speech to the commonwealth club of san francisco. "it would be unreasonable." in his speech, mr carter said: "it is easy to see wrong ways to do this. one would be a law hastily written in anger or grief. another would be to have the rules be written by russia or china." on the same day, it was announced that the turing award had been given to a pair of cryptographers whose ideas helped make the internet possible. according to the associated press, the recipients - whitfield diffie, a former chief security officer of sun microsystems, and martin hellman, a professor emeritus of electrical engineering at stanford university - said that giving governments control over  encryption  communications would put everyone at risk. the pair were chosen for the $1m (£700,000) award for contributions to computing for the ideas of public-key cryptography and digital signatures, which they introduced in 1976. the concepts now secure all kinds of data, from online communications and financial transactions to internet-connected infrastructure like power plants, the ap agency reported. the clash between apple and the fbi over whether the company should provide access to  encryption  data on a locked iphone used by one of the san bernardino attackers highlights debates about privacy and data security which have raged for decades.  cryptography was once controlled by the state and deployed only for military and diplomatic ends. but in the 1970s, cryptographer whitfield diffie devised a system which took  encryption  keys away from the state and marked the start of the so-called "crypto wars".  whitfield diffie and three other experts spoke to the bbc world service inquiry programme about the tensions at the heart of the spat between apple and the fbi.  in 1975, cryptographer whitfield diffie devised "public key cryptography", which revolutionised  encryption .  "the basic techniques we used until public key cryptography come from around 1500 in the western world, and were known from about 800 in the middle east.  "they are basically arithmetic. not ordinary integer arithmetic, but something like clock arithmetic - it's 11 o'clock and you wait three hours and you get 2 o'clock - and table lookups. what's the 5th element in the table? what's the 20th element?  "the trouble is you can't do them very well without some kind of mechanical computation. a human being can't do enough of those calculations to produce a secure system without making too many mistakes.  "before what we did, you could not have supported cryptography outside a fairly integrated organisation. if you look at the us department of defense, it's very large, but very centralised; everybody knows the chain of command. "they can have a trusted entity run by the national security agency (nsa) to manage the keys [used by the military and government]. if you were in the military, and it was part of your assignment to talk to somebody securely in another part of the military, they would supply you with a key, and every morning you come out and put one in your teletype machine or phone or whatever.   "but the internet is not just meant for friends to talk to friends, it's for everybody to talk to everybody. until you have public key cryptography you have no way of arranging the keys on demand at a moment's notice for these secure communications.   "that's what browsers do with websites all the time. amazon, ebay, all of the merchants on the internet encryption at least some of the traffic you have with them, at the very least the payment portion of it. "[at the time] the nsa reacted like any other enterprise that has had a monopoly in a market for a long period of time. suddenly somebody was treading on its turf, and it made several attempts to recapture its market." susan landau is professor of cyber security policy at worcester polytechnic institute.  "public-key cryptography was mathematically elegant and also quite elementary. that's what made it so powerful and so wonderful. "the nsa said 'wait a minute: this work should be classified.' they had been accustomed to being the only place that cryptography was done. they didn't want a competitor developing algorithms that maybe they would have trouble breaking into. they wanted to hold the keys to the kingdom.  "there was a big fight between the academic and industry research community and the nsa. but it was settled fairly amicably, fairly quickly. the next problem was who would control the development of cryptography standards for the us government.   "the nsa does this for military and diplomatic communications, but there's a vast need for cryptography for civilian agencies such as health and human services, education, agriculture. the national bureau of standards had been doing this in the 1970s but in the 1980s the nsa began pushing in this direction.   "congress, who had always looked more favourably on the civilian side, put the national institute of standards and technology in charge. "but the law also included this little thing about three people from nsa approving certain things. they exercised tremendous control, and kept blocking standards that were more friendly to the commercial sector. that battle went on between 1987 until the mid 1990s. it was quite ugly. "another battle was over the clipper chip. clipper was a very hard algorithm with a secure key, but the key was split and was to be shared with agencies of the federal government. the idea was [that] a business person travelling overseas would be able to use a clipper-enabled phone and talk securely with the office back at home.  "but if you're doing something illegal the us government will be able to decrypt easily, because the keys are held by its agencies. "it was a complete flop. outside the us, no one wanted it. inside the us, no one bought it. it was a total failure. "the controls on cryptography in the 1990s were very odd because they were controls on an export. if you wanted to export a computer or communications device with cryptography, you needed an export licence from the us government.   "much of the time you would get 'we're looking at it, we'll get back to you.' of course, when you're selling high tech, you don't need a delay of two months, [so] you decide not to have strong  encryption  within the device - you put in something very weak that the us government will allow to go without a licence. the effect was to not have strong  encryption  domestically as well as abroad.  "in 2000, the us government loosened the controls on export of devices with strong  encryption ; it looked as if the private sector won the battle."  alan woodward is an expert in signals intelligence, intelligence gathered from communications, who has worked for the uk government in various roles.  "suppose you got intelligence that people appeared to be mobilising their military forces. you'd need to know whether that was a prelude to war, or just an exercise. one of the ways to do that was by analysing the signals and communications traffic going around on the other side. "in the early 2000s, it got harder. previously they'd had the ability to decrypt things that were weakly  encryption . you could throw a super computer at the problem and try all the possible keys until you unlock the message.  "you just physically couldn't do that for the number of  encryption  messages that were starting to pile up. but also, the forms of  encryption  were becoming stronger. the  encryption  that was being used by governments themselves back in the 1970s was called the data  encryption  standard. with a modern pc, you can break that in a matter of seconds. that kind of evolution in  encryption  and decryption has been going on ever since.  "it got worse because there were various other forms of technology that were based on  encryption , where you were able to remain anonymous, completely hidden. there's a thing called the tor network which causes security agencies a great deal of trouble, because you don't even know where that person is based, never mind who they're communicating with.  "governments recognised that there wasn't a lot you could do about this technically or from a policy perspective. it's out there. so what you have to do is  be able to get at it before it is  encryption  or after it's decrypted.   "they recognised that they needed to work more closely with the technology providers because they were the ones that owned the infrastructure that was being used.  they were the ones running it; it was no longer governments and state telecommunications companies.  "they had very good relationships. microsoft produced a suite of software called cofee (computer online forensic evidence extractor), which is only given to government and law enforcement agencies. it's a forensic tool that allows you to analyse windows systems.  "you used to be able to go along to apple and they could unlock the phone. with messaging services it was possible for governments with the right authorisation to go along and sit in the middle of the conversation and look at the messages in a non- encryption  form.   "all of that changed when edward snowden got his leaks out."  jeff larson is a reporter at new york investigative newsroom propublica. it worked with the guardian newspaper on the sensitive material leaked by edward snowden from the us national security agency in 2013.  "i had seen something in the snowden tranche of documents that made me suspicious that the nsa and gchq had been working behind the scenes to crack  encryption  that powers internet technologies. "when you log into your bank or twitter or facebook, your web browser talks to those servers over what's known as tls, which is an  encryption  layer that protects the confidentiality of that traffic.   "the intelligence agencies - not only nsa and gchq, but canada and australia and new zealand- had spent 10 years and untold billions of dollars trying to break these fundamental  encryption  technologies.   "they honed things, like their power with super computers, but they were also able to mount a programme of inserting back doors into cryptographic software, and - perhaps a bit more troubling - the nsa launched a covert campaign to influence the very standards that programmers rely on to create  encryption .   "so standards bodies write up 'here's how  encryption  works, here's how you implement it in your software', and the nsa was actually working against that effort. "ever since [the snowden revelations were published in] 2013, there's been quite a movement to further encryption the internet.   "i think there's been an awakening on the part of private companies that it is important to their users to keep [their data] confidential and secret.  "apple saw these revelations about the overreach of intelligence services and law enforcement services, and created a phone that was harder to crack because they wanted to increase the security of their users. i do believe that. "the apple case is very hard. i see the arguments on both sides. i see the fact that the fbi wants access to this information, and i also see apple's need to protect its customers' privacy.   "i hope that we come to a conclusion that is more open and transparent. what i would say is i like that this fight is happening in public so that we can have debates like this." the inquiry is broadcast on the bbc world service on tuesdays from 12:05 gmt. listen online or download the podcast. the netherlands has said it will not force tech firms to share  encryption  communications such as emails with its security agencies. the move puts the country in stark contrast with us and uk officials, who have argued agencies need such access to fight terrorism.  the netherlands began reviewing its policies after the recent paris terrorist attacks. but this week it said "restrictive" measures would put citizens at risk.  encryption  is a way of protecting communications or data so that it is incomprehensible without the correct passcode or key. advocates say it protects users by preventing criminals and spies from prying into private conversations.  but security agencies have said they struggled to bypass  encryption  messaging platforms used by groups such as so-called islamic state to plan attacks. "we are not some kind of maniacs who are ideologues against  encryption ," fbi director james comey said in november:     "but we have a problem that  encryption  is crashing into public safety and we have to figure out, as people who care about both, how to resolve it."  in a letter published this week, the dutch ministry of security and justice concluded there were arguments for and against "strong  encryption ". however, it said allowing law enforcers to access protected data would make digital systems vulnerable to "criminals, terrorists and foreign intelligence services". "this would have undesirable consequences for the security of information stored and communicated and the integrity of ict systems, which are increasingly of importance for the functioning of the society," it added. despite objections from the fbi, the white house has dropped plans to force tech firms to share  encryption  data. but the uk government hopes to secure such powers through its draft investigatory powers bill - referred to by some as the snooper's charter. the bill also includes a stipulation that internet and phone companies keep records of every website, app and service to which a computer connects. the proposals have met with fierce resistance from privacy advocates and tech firms.  some fear it will legitimise the mass surveillance programmes of the us and uk security agencies uncovered by whistleblower edward snowden in 2013.   in december, apple told a parliamentary select committee scrutinising the bill that "in this rapidly evolving cyber-threat environment, companies should remain free to implement strong  encryption  to protect customers". and this week, william binney, ex-technical director of the us national security agency, said the bill would be "totalitarian" and "cost lives". "it is 99% useless," he said in a letter sent to mps.  "who wants to know everyone who has ever looked at google or the bbc? we have known for decades that that swamps [security agency] analysts." prime minister david cameron believes it is unacceptable that some private communications cannot be accessed by governments thanks to  encryption  technology.phil zimmerman, referred to by many as the "father of  encryption " takes a very different view.newsnight's david grossman travelled to mobile world congress in barcelona to hear about the growing dilemma surrounding privacy and security. amazon has pledged to restore disk  encryption  security protection to its mobile operating system. the firm had faced criticism after it emerged that the feature had been dropped in a recent update to fire os. amazon had justified the move by saying that "customers weren't using" the privacy facility. it now intends to reintroduce it before the end of may. disk  encryption  has become a topical issue as it lies at the heart of a clash between apple and the fbi. the facility digitally scrambles data on a device, making it impossible to make sense of it unless a passcode or other id check is provided.  the dispute involving apple concerns the tech firm's refusal to alter its own mobile operating system to prevent an iphone's data being wiped if too many incorrect passcode guesses are typed in.  amazon has publicly backed apple's stance via a legal filing known as an amicus brief, which was submitted to a us court last week. amazon removed disk  encryption  when it released fire os 5 last year. it included the operating system with its fire tablets, as well as its tv-streaming devices. however, a backlash only occurred after amazon started making the update available to owners of its older fire tablets, who noticed the security facility was no longer available. "i will no longer be able to keep my business email... as our institution requires that  encryption  be used," wrote one tablet owner on the firm's forums. "i cannot believe amazon just 'deleted' this critical feature." another posted: "in an era where devices store information on everything from browsing habits to bank information it's nearly unthinkable for a company to deliberately remove the one feature that can protect a customer from identity theft if their device is lost or stolen." the firm reversed its stance over the weekend. "we will return the option for full disk  encryption  with a fire os update coming this spring," a spokesman told the bbc. the flip-flop has not affected the firm's continued use of  encryption  to protect data sent between its devices and its data centres. fire os is a variant of android.  google offers full device  encryption  in its version of the operating system, and in october told device manufacturers that it should be switched on by default in new handsets powerful enough to support it. one expert suggested amazon should take a similar step. "there's growing recognition that better security is needed in the whole sphere of computing and particularly mobile devices," commented dr steven murdoch from university college london. "so, i was surprised when amazon removed the feature.  "it's certainly possible that many people didn't enable it - perhaps they found it inconvenient to do so. but rather than remove it, a better solution would be to make it more easy to use." whenever the terrorist threat is increased, as it has been since the tragic events in paris last week, so too are the calls from politicians to increase the powers of the people they employ to protect the public from such threats. those agencies can only do their job, the argument goes, if they have full access to the online chatter of those planning terrorist atrocities. as the uk's prime minister david cameron put it in a speech this week - there should be no "means of communication" which "we cannot read". but in an era when communication takes many forms, and with the added problem that much of this communication is  encryption , how easy is it to turn this sound bite into reality? for mr cameron the answer lies in a new "comprehensive piece of legislation" that will close the "safe spaces" used by suspected terrorists. so what are those safe spaces?  although mr cameron doesn't name any, it is likely he is referring to new apps such as whatsapp and snapchat which allow people to chat with relative anonymity by keeping their services  encryption . but the battle is much more wide-ranging as established names such as google and apple promise to do more to ensure that  encryption  is used as default on their services. after the revelations from whistle-blower edward snowden about mass surveillance programs, firms are determined to be seen to be putting the control of their data back in the hands of consumers. in the past, governments with the appropriate warrants could go to firms such as apple and ask them to unlock the communications on phones. no more. apple has changed its infrastructure to make it impossible for it to hand over any data from the iphone 6's imessage service, for example. such military-grade lock-down of devices inevitably terrifies governments so it should come as no surprise that they are fighting back with new legislation. although, it should be noted, that the new legislation mr cameron referred to in his speech is probably just a resurrection of an old law.  the draft communication bill of 2012, dubbed the "snoopers' charter" by critics, aimed to extend the range of data that communication companies had to store for 12 months. it would have included, for the first time, details of messages sent on social media, webmail, voice calls over the internet and gaming. officials would not have been able to see the content without a warrant but the bill was blocked by the liberal democrats. politics continues to dog attempts to revive it with deputy prime minister nick clegg saying after mr cameron's latest speech that his party will continue to oppose any such legislation. at the heart of the debate is the question about how the government deals with the fact that communication data is increasingly being  encryption . as prof alan woodward, a security expert from the university of surrey, puts it: "you can have all the legislation in the world but you still might not be able to read what you've got."  encryption  has long terrified governments.  the so-called crypto-wars began in the 1970s when the us government attempted to classify  encryption  as munition.  the clinton administration in the 1990s tried to get industry to adopt the so-called clipper chip - an  encryption  chip for which the government had a backdoor. the us government also tried to introduce something called key escrow - a policy that all  encryption  systems should leave a a spare key with a trusted third party. when software developer phil zimmermann developed pgp, a free mass-market  encryption  product for emails and files, the us government attempted to prosecute him because someone had exported his software from the us without government permission. and, however outrageous this may sound now, those two options remain the only ones for the government as, two decades later, they grapple with exactly the same issues. so does the idea of a golden key, a backdoor for the security service, make any more sense now than it did in the 1990s? certainly the threat from terrorism is greater and few would argue with the sentiment that, if you are in danger and a police officer turns up at your backdoor - you are going to let them in. but the analogy implies that someone has control over who uses the backdoor and, of course, in the software sense this is impossible.  a backdoor in software is not just something for the security service. anyone - including the criminals - may discover it and exploit it. "a uk cryptographic backdoor would become the number one global target for cybercriminals. the uk government would not be able to keep it secure for long, particularly if it needed to give access to police and security services," said matthew bloch, managing director of internet hosting firm bytemark. all of this has been debated before, of course.  ahead of the controversial regulation of investigatory powers act, which came into force in 2000, both options of a backdoor and the idea of a key stored by a third party were considered and rejected by lawmakers. they opted instead for a third way - that someone in possession of an  encryption  key should be forced to hand it over to the authorities. that too is fraught with complexities. often the person simply doesn't know the key. "it comes down to passwords on laptops and you can't force someone to hand these over," said prof woodward. and  encryption  technology is evolving. "now there is a way of protecting secret information into the future so if a key is compromised the key agreed for a particular session changes," he explained. "there are even technologies emerging that can give a false key which makes the system aware that the key was given under duress and wipes the data." the technology industry tends to have a knee-jerk reaction to attempts from government to interfere in its processes.  don't mess in things that you don't understand, they warn. the technology genie is out of the bottle and cannot be put back. in this particular case, some have interpreted mr cameron's words as meaning that the government is seeking to ban, in effect, a technology that underpins the global economy. ssl (secure sockets layer) and tls (transport layer security)  encryption  protects financial details when people shop or bank online while so-called end-to-end  encryption  such as pgp (pretty good privacy) help keep personal messages private. " encryption  is mathematics, not technology. it can't be suppressed by law," mr bloch told the bbc. whatever route the government elected in the uk in may decides to go, prof woodward hopes that it will listen carefully to the technology industry. "the government will need to take a lot of wide-ranging advice as this has the potential to go spectacularly wrong." it is also worth noting, he added, that the men involved in the paris shootings were known to the authorities and had been under surveillance until it was deemed that the threat from them had lessened. "the security forces need better resources not more powers." the indian government has exempted social media applications from a new  encryption  policy after public uproar over the proposed measures. the new law would have forced indians to store plain-text versions of their  encryption  data for 90 days and make it available to security agencies. the policy sparked outrage on social media, as most messaging services like whatsapp use some form of  encryption . online banking and purchases will also be exempt from the law.   indians have until 16 october to weigh in on the proposed measures, and the government has said that the final policy will only be drafted after the feedback is taken into account. the  encryption  policy was proposed to enhance information security in india. but experts argue that if enforced in its current form, the policy could make personal information vulnerable to hacking.  plain text files like a word document or email are not  encryption  and can be read by anyone. a european police chief says the sophisticated online communications are the biggest problem for security agencies tackling terrorism.  hidden areas of the internet and  encryption  communications make it harder to monitor terror suspects, warns europol's rob wainwright. tech firms should consider the impact sophisticated  encryption  software has on law enforcement, he said. mr wainwright was talking to 5 live investigates. a spokesman for techuk, the uk's technology trade association, said: "with the right resources and cooperation between the security agencies and technology companies, alongside a clear legal framework for that cooperation, we can ensure both national security and economic security are upheld." mr wainwright said that in most current investigations the use of  encryption  communications was found to be central to the way terrorists operated.  "it's become perhaps the biggest problem for the police and the security service authorities in dealing with the threats from terrorism," he explained. "it's changed the very nature of counter-terrorist work from one that has been traditionally reliant on having good monitoring capability of communications to one that essentially doesn't provide that any more." mr wainwright, whose organisation supports police forces in europe, said terrorists were exploiting the "dark net", where users can go online anonymously, away from the gaze of police and security services. but he is also concerned at moves by companies such as apple to allow customers to encryption data on their smartphones. and the development of heavily  encryption  instant messaging apps is another cause for concern, he said. this meant people could send text and voice messages which police found very difficult or impossible to access, he said. "we are disappointed by the position taken by these tech firms and it only adds to our problems in getting to the communications of the most dangerous people that are abusing the internet.  "[tech firms] are doing it, i suppose, because of a commercial imperative driven by what they perceive to be consumer demand for greater privacy of their communications." mr wainwright acknowledged this was a result of the revelations by former national security agency contractor edward snowden, who exposed how security services were conducting widespread surveillance of emails and messages.  he said security agencies now had to work to rebuild trust between technology firms and the authorities.  the techuk spokesman told the programme: "from huge volumes of financial transactions to personal details held on devices, the security of digital communications fundamentally underpins the uk economy.  " encryption  is an essential component of the modern world and ensures the uk retains its position as one of the world's leading economies.  "tech companies take their security responsibilities incredibly seriously, and in the ongoing course of counter-terrorism and other investigations engage with law enforcement and security agencies."  the programme also found evidence that supporters of the islamic state (is) are using  encryption  sites to radicalise or groom new recruits. on one blogging website, a 17-year-old girl who wants to become a "jihadi bride" is told that if she needs to speak securely she should use an  encryption  messaging app.  the family of 15-year-old yusra hussein from bristol, who went to syria last year, also believe she was groomed in this way. the extent of the challenge faced by security services is shown in the scale of social media use by is. mr wainwright revealed that is is believed to have up to 50,000 different twitter accounts tweeting up to 100,000 messages a day. europol is now setting up a european internet referral unit to identify and remove sites being used by terrorist organisations. mr wainwright also says current laws are "deficient" and should be reviewed to ensure security agencies are able to monitor all areas of the online world. "there is a significant capability gap that has to change if we're serious about ensuring the internet isn't abused and effectively enhancing the terrorist threat. "we have to make sure we reach the right balance by ensuring the fundamental principles of privacy are upheld so there's a lot of work for legislators and tech firms to do." bbc radio 5 live investigates is on bbc 5live on sunday 29 march at 11am or download the programme podcast. the head of gchq has called for greater co-operation between spies and tech companies in dealing with challenges posed by  encryption . robert hannigan said the encoding of data was being misused by a small number of people.  he said the rational response was not to think  encryption  was bad, but to look for pragmatic ways of responding.  mr hannigan was speaking as the fbi engages in a legal battle with apple over the firm's  encryption  systems. at an event at mit in boston, mr hannigan, director of the uk government's communications intelligence agency, said it should be up to politicians - not companies or spies - to set the parameters. on his first day in charge of gchq in november 2014, mr hannigan wrote an opinion piece for the financial times accusing us tech companies of becoming the "command and control network of choice" for terrorist groups.   a year and a half later in boston, mr hannigan conceded the comments caused a bigger stir than he expected and said they were wrongly seen as an attack on the tech industry.  the tone of his latest intervention was conciliatory, focusing on the need for government agencies and companies to work together to find solutions.  "we need a new relationship between the tech sector, academia, civil society and government agencies. we should be bridging the divide, sharing ideas and building a constructive dialogue in a less highly-charged atmosphere," he told the audience. apple has designed phones with strong  encryption  which made it impossible for the company to retrieve data for the state, including in the case of one of those involved in the san bernadino attacks.   the company and its supporters have stressed that creating any form of "key" for the government to unlock data would also create a vulnerability for hackers and others to exploit.    mr hannigan did not mention apple directly but emphasised the way in which gchq supported strong  encryption  because of the agency's role in protecting british data from hackers and other states.  he also pointed to the agency's pioneering work such as that of alan turing in world war two who worked not just on breaking codes but also on securing speech through  encryption .  mr hannigan said two previously secret papers from 1970 by james ellis, a leading gchq cryptographer, were being declassified which showed the early work on developing what became the now widely used system of public key cryptography.  that kind of innovation was what mr hannigan said he wanted to see today in dealing with the modern challenges surrounding  encryption .  "the solution is not, of course, that  encryption  should be weakened, let alone banned. but neither is it true that nothing can be done without weakening  encryption ," he said, adding that it was wrong to see every attempt to tackle the misuse of  encryption  by criminals and terrorists as a "backdoor".   mr hannigan reiterated that the british government position - as set out in the new investigatory powers bill - would not outlaw the type of end-to-end  encryption  which is at the heart of the row between apple and the fbi.   instead, he said, it will demand companies take reasonable and practical steps to provide data when demanded.  "within the parameters set by legislation, it should be possible for technical experts to sit down together and work out solutions to particular manifestations of the abuse of  encryption ."  such conversations were more common before the snowden revelations, officials say, but since then companies have withdrawn and referred requests to their lawyers.   the decision about where to draw the boundaries was not one for either the companies or the spies, mr hannigan said, but instead for lawmakers.  "it is not for me, as an intelligence official and civil servant, or for a law enforcement officer to make these broad judgements, whether about the use of data in general or  encryption  in particular; nor is it for tech company colleagues nor even for independent academics.   "since the trade-offs are for society as a whole, it must surely be for elected representatives to decide the parameters of what is acceptable." antony walker, deputy chief executive of techuk, an organisation which represents tech firms, said the solution lay in government, academia and industry working together.  "these are hugely complex issues," he said. "this speech makes it very clear that there are no easy answers. it is a realistic assessment of the trade-offs that need to be made to secure our digital world.  "we must not jeopardise our long-term security." grief over the paris attacks will soon make way to demands for action. as well as increased military activity, and the controversial suggestions to close the door on refugees, the next battle in the "surely something can be done" arena will be aimed squarely, and angrily, at silicon valley. tech companies were already under pressure to make it easier for governments to access "private" communication apps and services. those calls have intensified greatly since the attacks in paris. "if you create a product that allows evil monsters to communicate in this way, to behead children, to strike innocents - whether it's at a game in a stadium, in a small restaurant in paris, take down an airline - that is a big problem," dianne feinstein, who chairs the senate intelligence committee, told msnbc. "we need hi-tech's help in securing an internet [where] even with a court order you can't get to what they're saying. "that's a big problem." the "problem" is to do with  encryption . without  encryption , all of the things we do online would be insecure, be it emailing, or shopping, or banking. they all rely on the principle that if you encryption data using complex mathematics it is nigh-on impossible to crack. if you're using communication apps such as whatsapp, apple's imessage, wechat and so on, your messages are  encryption  by default. it means that even if those companies wanted to hand over your messages to law enforcement, they couldn't. that's bad, some say. "there are a lot of technological capabilities that are available right now that make it exceptionally difficult, both technically as well as legally, for intelligence and security services to have the insight they need to uncover it," said cia director john brennan at a security forum on monday. "and i do think this is a time for particularly europe, as well as here in the united states, for us to take a look and see whether or not there have been some inadvertent or intentional gaps that have been created in the ability of intelligence and security services to protect the people that they are asked to serve." an opinion column in the new york times, authored by manhattan's district attorney, and the city of london police commissioner, said " encryption  blocks justice".  in the piece, published back in august, they wrote about a murder near chicago in which a father of six had been shot. at the scene, officers found two mobile phones. but they were passcode locked. neither google or apple (the phones ran their software) could unlock the phones, and therefore the data was inaccessible. "on behalf of crime victims the world over," the opinion piece read, "we are asking whether this  encryption  is truly worth the cost." it's an argument that can be made with more vigour than ever after the paris attacks. with access to communications, the anti- encryption  advocates say, we could perhaps stop these tragic events from occurring. that's a claim worth scrutinising. it's early days in the investigation, and no evidence has yet been offered to show that  encryption  communications were used to organise the atrocity. but, given that much of the world's population - from gossiping teenagers to deal-making business people - are using  encryption  regularly, it's not a wild assumption to consider that the attackers were too. but technology industry is, on the whole, against the suggestion that law enforcement should have "backdoors" into popular services - the term given to a hidden way of circumventing the app's security. a backdoor, in the infosec world, is the term given to a method in which a supposedly secure system can be accessed. it could be a quirk in some code, or a vulnerability in how a system communicates. whatever the weakness, typically, once backdoors are made public, they are fixed. hackers make serious money by discovering backdoors and selling them on - often to government security services. many in law enforcement and government feel there should be a backdoor made just for those in authority to investigate and stop criminals and terrorists. but some of tech's most influential figures say that the notion of a secure, secret backdoor is dangerously misguided.  if any backdoor exists, hackers will find it eventually. it would mean data security for all of us, not just criminals, would evaporate. the edward snowden leaks about mass surveillance changed the landscape in this debate dramatically. faced with user backlash over apparent cooperation with the us government, technology companies were desperate to show they could be trusted. they quickly implemented changes that were essentially designed to put them in a position of being able to credibly say: "listen, even if we wanted to help, we couldn't." "if the government laid a subpoena to get imessages, we can't provide it," said apple boss tim cook, speaking last year to us public broadcaster pbs. "it's  encryption  and we don't have a key. and so it's sort of - the door is closed." for a company that is reluctant to say much about anything, apple is bullish on  encryption . at a dinner event earlier this year, mr cook pressed home his view. he said calls for intentional backdoors for government as an attack on "civil liberties". "if you put a key under the mat for the cops," he said. "a burglar can find it too." but silicon valley companies are preparing themselves for a backlash against this attitude. post-snowden, the obama administration was compelled to rejig its rules over data gathering, acknowledging that some of the actions of its security services were unconstitutional. great news for silicon valley and privacy advocates. gone is the wholesale collection of some types of data. in its place, a more selective means of data mining, but, crucially, a backing off of trying to get apple et al to back down on their views over  encryption . but after paris, we could see a shift in momentum. a memo uncovered by the washington post, sent three months ago by robert litt, a lawyer working for the us national intelligence office, said that while attitudes towards creating government backdoors were "hostile", that atmosphere "could turn in the event of a terrorist attack or criminal event where strong  encryption  can be shown to have hindered law enforcement".  paris may just be that event. but if it is, how effective would those suggested measures be?  one of the apps being used extensively by so-called islamic state is telegram, a secure messaging app founded by russian brothers pavel and nikolai durov. the app allows broadcast channels, and my colleagues at bbc monitoring logged that at least 4,500 people were listening to is's channel on telegram. any us decision to force back doors into software wouldn't affect what telegram does. the company is based in berlin. any attempt by european authorities would probably fall on deaf ears - the durovs are no strangers to evading what they see as government meddling. pavel durov founded vkontakte (known now as vk), a social network with the lion's share of audience in russia. it's not unfair to call it a facebook clone - it looks almost identical. when russian authorities wanted more access to the discussions on vk, pavel fled. telegram has repeatedly ignored the bbc's request for comment on this, and other, stories. but on instagram, pavel made his feelings on the paris attacks clear. "i think the french government is as responsible as is... for this, because it is their policies and carelessness which eventually led to the tragedy," he said. "they take money away from hardworking people of france with outrageously high taxes and spend them on waging useless wars in the middle east and on creating parasitic social paradise for north african immigrants. "it is a disgrace to see paris in the hands of short-sighted socialists who ruin this beautiful place." in a comment posted to his profile on vkontakte, pavel, as quoted by the moscow times, mocked the suggestion his app should be blocked.  "i propose banning words," he said. "there's evidence [to suggest] that they're being used by terrorists to communicate." the attitude displayed by pavel durov exposes, pro- encryption  advocates say, the inherent flaw in the argument for allowing government access. if apple, google, facebook and others were compelled by law to introduce backdoors, terrorists would probably just move, as they have done already, to other platforms with a more anarchistic approach. it would leave services "normal" people use far less secure, while dangerous people would be operating on systems that are even harder to gain access to, with proprietors who are proudly anti-government. in the coming days, statements from politicians and law enforcement will be made, directed at the technology companies that handle our day-to-day communications. they'll be forced to look cooperative while not undermining the promises they made after the snowden revelations. put up against military or diplomatic action, taking affirmative steps against communication apps may seem an easy win in the war against terrorism. but like so many challenges the world faces - it's simply nowhere near as straightforward as it seems. follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc the fbi director, james comey, has stressed the importance of understanding "the costs associated with moving to a world of universal strong  encryption ".he insisted that he "loves privacy" but emphasised that the ability of law enforcement bodies to access people's information was important for security reasons. zeid ra'ad al hussein, high commissioner for human rights at the united nations, has warned that a "pandora's box" will be opened if apple co-operates with the fbi. the fbi has ordered the tech giant to assist it with unlocking an iphone used by san bernadino gunman syed farook.  prince al hussein said the law enforcement agency "deserves everyone's full support" in its investigation. however,  encryption  was essential in the interests of freedom, he added. "there are many ways to investigate whether or not these killers had accomplices besides forcing apple to create software to undermine the security features of their own phones," he said in a statement. "it is potentially a gift to authoritarian regimes, as well as to criminal hackers. " encryption  and anonymity are needed as enablers of both freedom of expression and opinion, and the right to privacy. without  encryption  tools, lives may be endangered." syed rizwan farook and his wife tashfeen malik killed 14 people and left 22 injured when they opened fire at his place of work in california in december 2015. the fbi has asked apple to disable a feature that means the data on an iphone is erased after 10 incorrect attempts at the four-digit password. it also wants to be able to run software that could go through the 10,000 possible combinations to unlock the gunman's handset quickly. apple says agreeing to the request would set "a dangerous precedent". a number of major tech firms have also pledged their support for apple's refusal to circumvent its own security. two groups of tech giants have now filed an amicus brief, which allows parties not directly involved in a court case, but who feel they are affected by it, to give their view. they include twitter, airbnb, ebay, linkedin, reddit, amazon, microsoft, snapchat and yahoo. however, a lawyer representing a group of farook's surviving victims said he would file similar legal paperwork on their behalf in support of the fbi. "they were targeted by terrorists, and they need to know why, how this could happen," said stephen larson, a former judge. he declined to say how many of the victims he was representing, but did add that he would not be charging them a fee. microsoft has issued a security warning about a bug that could let attackers spy on supposedly secure communications. called "freak", the bug was found in software used to encryption data passing between web servers and web users.  initially the flaw was thought only to affect some users of android and blackberry phones and apple's safari web browser. microsoft's warning suggests millions more may be at risk of losing data. the freak flaw was discovered by  encryption  and security expert karthikeyan bhargavan and lets attackers force data travelling between a vulnerable site and a visitor to use weak  encryption . this makes it easier to crack open the data and steal sensitive information. statistics gathered by a group set up to monitor the impact of the freak flaw suggest about 9.5% of the web's top one million websites are susceptible to such attacks. the monitoring group has also produced an online tool that lets people check if they are using a browser that is vulnerable to the flaw. apple is expected to produce a patch for the flaw next week and google has updated its version of chrome for the mac to remove its susceptibility to freak. it has yet to say what action it is taking with android. in a security advisory note released on 5 march, microsoft said every current version of windows that uses internet explorer, or any non-microsoft software that calls on a part of windows called secure channel, was vulnerable to the freak flaw. microsoft has issued advice about ways to remove the vulnerability from some of its software but said applying these fixes could cause "serious problems" with other programs. it said it was working on a separate security update to remove the vulnerability. in its advisory, microsoft said it had not received any information that suggested the attack was being actively exploited by cybercriminals. a yahoo executive has publicly challenged the national security agency (nsa) over  encryption  "backdoors". alex stamos pressed nsa director adm mike rogers on whether the access to  encryption  data requested by the us authorities should also be granted to the russian and chinese governments. adm rogers insisted an agreement could be reached "within a framework". the tense exchange came after many top tech figures refused to attend a white house cybersecurity summit this month. "if we're going to build defects, backdoors or golden master keys for the us government, do you believe we should do so... for the chinese government, the russian government, the saudi arabian government, the israeli government, the french government?" asked mr stamos, yahoo's chief information security officer. after initially dodging the question, adm rogers - who took over as director of the nsa last year - responded: "i think that we're lying that this isn't technically feasible. "now, it needs to be done within a framework. i'm the first to acknowledge that." according to a transcript provided by the just security website, he argued that he did not want the fbi and nsa to unilaterally decide what access they should have, but insisted an agreement was achievable. pressed on whether he thought that access should also be granted to other nations' governments, adm rogers said: "i think we can work our way through this." mr stamos responded: "i'm sure the chinese and russians are going to have the same opinion." the exchange took place before delegates at a cybersecurity conference hosted by the new america foundation on monday. there has been an increasingly tense relationship between the us authorities and silicon valley since information was leaked by nsa whistleblower edward snowden.  encryption  of user data has subsequently become increasingly popular and, in some cases, the companies hand over the keys to users, making it difficult to break. but the white house has asked tech firms to share more data with law enforcement agencies. and the us authorities want them to build in vulnerabilities that they would be able to exploit. the rift was illustrated when, earlier this month, senior google, yahoo and facebook executives turned down invitations to a white house cybersecurity summit at stanford university. tim cook, of apple, was one of the few top tech bosses to appear. adm rogers told the conference on monday that the nsa needed a way to access data if it was believed that a device was "being used for criminal, or in my case, foreign intelligence or national security issues". but he acknowledged that there were legitimate concerns to be addressed before a "legal framework" could be established.  encryption  software that makes it hard to spy on what people do and say online is "essential" for free speech, says a united nations report. without anonymising tools, many people will find it far harder to express opinions without censure, it says. any attempt to weaken  encryption  software will only curb this ability, it warns. the report comes as many governments seek to put "backdoors" in  encryption  software to aid law enforcement. " encryption  and anonymity, separately or together, create a zone of privacy to protect opinion and belief," says the report written by david kaye, a special rapporteur in the un's office of the high commissioner for human rights. the tools to bestow such protection are essential, it says, given the "unprecedented capacity" governments, companies, thieves and pranksters now have to interfere with people's ability to express themselves. lacking such tools, it adds, many people will be unable to fully explore "basic aspects of their identity" such as their gender, religion, ethnicity, origins or sexuality. the software acts as a "shield" for opinions against external scrutiny - a fact that is "particularly important in hostile political, social, religious and legal environments", says the report. "states should not restrict  encryption  and anonymity, which facilitate and often enable the rights to freedom of opinion and expression." the report acknowledges the need for police forces and other agencies to get at  encryption  messages and other communications - but says this should be done on a "case-by-case" basis and should not be applied to a "mass of people". it also cautions against the use of backdoors and weak  encryption  systems that can put anonymity in peril as much as they aid law enforcement. the report is being released against a background of calls from the us and uk governments to hobble  encryption  - so intelligence agencies and others have access to scrambled communications to help tackle crime and terrorism. mr kaye's report is due to be presented to the un's human rights council in june. overdue modernisation of the way the authorities monitor criminals and terrorists - or a snooper's charter eroding our basic liberties? the proposal outlined in the queen's speech to "modernise the law on communications data" will divide opinion. but prepare for another long battle over the way that law is framed and the balance it strikes between privacy and public safety. the row over forcing internet service providers (isps) to hold on to far more data about their users' online activities has stretched over three parliaments. the idea first came up under the last labour government, when it was quashed by conservative and liberal democrat opposition. then it was resurrected by the coalition, with theresa may's plans - immediately dubbed the snooper's charter - blocked by her liberal democrat partners. now we have in the queen's speech what looks like a much wider proposal for a new investigatory powers bill. the government says this will "provide the police and intelligence agencies with the tools to keep you and your family safe", will "maintain the ability of our intelligence agencies to target the online communications of terrorists", and will "cover all investigatory powers including communications data, where the government has long maintained that the gap in capabilities are putting lives at risk". so it is both sweeping and vague, promising to give the authorities the tools they need to track criminals in a complex online world without specifying as yet how far they will be allowed to go. the open rights group (org), which campaigns against increased surveillance, is convinced this is the return of the so-called snooper's charter, with increased powers of data collection and retention aimed at the entire population, coupled with attacks on  encryption . the org's executive director jim killock thinks the bill will have two aims - codifying existing practices by the intelligence agencies uncovered by edward snowden and expanding data retention by isps.  but he believes that the increasing use of  encryption  by the likes of google and facebook means that ordering isps to store their customers' data won't be enough: "there's going to be a very interesting discussion about whether government can break  encryption  or order companies to break it." those at the sharp end - the isps - are more circumspect in their response to the government's plans. their trade body ispa put out a statement welcoming the fact that the government had promised to factor in the independent anderson review of the laws on intercepting communications data. but it warned of the need to "properly balance security, privacy, costs to industry and to preserve the uk's reputation as a leading place to do business online".  the isps also suspect that plans to attack  encryption  could be on the agenda.  the government has a clear election mandate, and is under pressure from the police and intelligence agencies to give them more capabilities in their online battles. but the opposition to its plans - if they do involve cracking the codes that keep online communication secret - will be intense. and it is likely to come not so much from opposition politicians, but from the global technology giants.  web-browser makers are preparing a fix for a flaw in an  encryption  algorithm that makes it possible to spy on supposedly secure communications. however, the updates will mean a minority of websites will be blocked by the new software. the "logjam attack" was discovered by researchers at microsoft and a number of us and french universities. they believe about 8% of the top one million https security-protected sites are made vulnerable by the flaw. users would therefore be given false reassurance by the padlock icon that such sites display in a browser's address bar. some email servers and services that use the transport layer security (tls) cryptographic protocol are also at risk of being hacked until their operators update their systems. the logjam attack vulnerability is a legacy of the us 1990s-era export restrictions on cryptographic tools. these limited the complexity of the secret  encryption  codes that could be generated by "international versions" of us-made software, including netscape's web browser. the export rules were later relaxed, but the researchers say an unintended consequence is that a commonly used process, called a diffie-hellman key exchange, can be compromised by a "man-in-the-middle" attack. a diffie-hellman key exchange was one of the first techniques developed to allow two or more parties to create and share an  encryption  key by exchanging parts of the key in public.  what the researchers discovered was that by intercepting the communications, a hacker could ensure a 512-bit key was used rather than a more complicated one. in this context, 512-bit means there are two to the power of 512 possible combinations - representing a huge number. nevertheless, the researchers said it was still possible for computers to crack such codes in "minutes". even more complicated types of  encryption  were susceptible to cyber-spies using supercomputers at the national security agency, they added. "in the 1024-bit case, we estimate that such computations are plausible given nation-state resources, and a close reading of published nsa leaks shows that the agency's attacks on vpns [virtual private networks] are consistent with having achieved such a break," they wrote. nevertheless, the fix that web-browser makers have agreed on is that their software should block 512-bit or weaker  encryption  keys. "the solution is relatively simple - you disable this legacy function on your system," said prof alan woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the university of surrey. "unfortunately, some older web servers might then be prevented from starting a secure conversation with the updated web browsers as they would support only that older, shorter, weaker key lengths.  "but do you really want this backward compatibility if it means others could be forced to use this weaker form of  encryption ? "browsers can be updated and servers can be reconfigured easily, and it really is no bad thing to force this to happen bearing in mind the alternative is that a 'secure connection" could potentially be broken by an eavesdropper." according to a report by the wall street journal, it has been estimated that 20,000 websites could become blocked as a consequence. mozilla - which is responsible for the firefox browser - said its new software should be released in the "next few days". "most of the coordination in this case was done thanks to the researchers who found the bug. they provided valuable measurement data to the various browser vendors, which allowed us all to calibrate our response," said richard barnes, the organisation's cryptographic engineering manager. another security expert said that internet users should not be worried about being unprotected in the meantime. "the fact that logjam can only be exploited when hackers and targets are on the same network, as well as patches being imminent, means that hype around it is likely to be a bit of a storm in a teacup," said ross brewer, from security research company logrhythm. "organisations should, however, use flaws like this as an excuse to give themselves a security health check.  "with flaws like logjam being identified with increasing frequency, the only real way to know you're safe is to know you can stop an attack in its tracks as soon as it gets going." us authorities have arrested a man who allegedly plotted to bomb an amazon data centre, which he believed would "kill off about 70% of the internet".  seth aaron pendley, 28, was arrested after receiving a dud explosive device from an undercover fbi agent, and was charged with a malicious attempt to destroy a building with an explosive, he came to the fbi's attention after somebody reported his online posts.  if convicted, mr pendley could face up to 20 years in prison. according to investigators, mr pendley's main goal was to damage amazon's web server network.   he believed that there were 24 buildings that "run 70% of the internet",  including services used by the cia and fbi, according to a conversation detailed in the criminal complaint against him. damaging them would frustrate the "oligarchy" - or small group of elites - in power in the united states, he believed. where the money is really made at amazonwhy amazon knows so much about you amazon web services (aws) does play a hugely important role in the modern internet, hosting and processing the information behind many popular online services and websites.  outages caused by a problem at one centre tend to knock services offline for several hours at most, and often for a limited number of people or for specific sites. for example, in 2017, a major fault at one us aws centre knocked sites such as quora and trello offline for several hours. and even the total loss by fire of a data centre belonging to european company ovh earlier this year - which disrupted an estimated 3.6 million websites including government portals across europe - went unnoticed by many internet users. an amazon spokesperson said: "we would like to thank the fbi for their work in this investigation. we take the safety and security of our staff and customer data incredibly seriously, and constantly review various vectors for any potential threats. we will continue to retain this vigilance about our employees and customers."  mr pendley attended the capitol riots of 6 january, investigators found, having driven from texas to washington dc. investigators said he told friends he had brought an assault rifle with him, but left it in his car - and also that although he reached the windows of the capitol building, he did not enter it. two days after that event, a "concerned citizen" reported mr pendley's posts on a militia website - where he went by the name of dionysus, the greek god of wine - to the fbi. "we are indebted to the concerned citizen who came forward to report the defendant's alarming online rhetoric. in flagging his posts to the fbi, this individual may have saved the lives of a number of tech workers," acting us attorney prerak shah said in a statement. the posts from "dionysus" that sparked concern spoke of his desire to "conduct a little experiment," which he said would be "dangerous" and "draw a lot of heat". asked by another user what the result would be, he responded, "death", according to the court documents. the fbi managed to uncover dionysus's email address, and link that to his facebook account and real-world identity. in late january, mr pendley began using the  encryption  messaging app signal to detail his plans to bomb an aws facility - but the recipient of those messages was a confidential fbi informant, investigators said.  over the course of february, mr pendley shared his plans, including the type of explosive he sought, potential targets, and maps.  on 31 march, the confidant introduced pendley to a supposed explosives supplier - who was actually an undercover member of the fbi. his plan at this point, according to a recorded conversation, was to attack three amazon buildings clustered close together. on 8 april, at the handover of the supposed explosives, the undercover fbi employee showed mr pendley boxes he claimed were c-4 weapons-grade explosives, and showed him how to arm and detonate them. after mr pendley took the devices and placed them in his car, he was arrested by the fbi. mr pendley made an initial court appearance on friday, and remains in custody. "the solution to government surveillance is to encryption everything."  so said eric schmidt, google's chairman, in response to revelations about the activities of the us national security agency (nsa) made by whistle-blower edward snowden. schmidt's advice appears to have been heeded by companies that provide internet-based services.  microsoft, for instance, says it will have "best-in-class industry cryptography" in place for services including outlook.com, office 365 and skydrive by the end of the year, while yahoo has announced plans to encryption all of its customers' data, including emails, by the end of the first quarter of 2014. for many smaller businesses too, 2014 is likely to be the year of  encryption . that's certainly the view of dave frymier, chief information security officer at unisys, a pennsylvania-based it company.  but he believes the driving force for this will be different: not government surveillance programmes, but the threat of attacks from hackers.  rather than  encryption  everything, mr frymier advocates that companies identify what he believes is the 5%-15% of their data that is really confidential, and use  encryption  to protect just that.  he says employees should then be barred from accessing this data using standard desktop and laptop machines or their own smartphones or tablets, which can easily be infected with  malware . access would be restricted to employees using secure "hardened" computers. "when you look at the increasing sophistication of  malware , it becomes apparent that you need to establish highly protected enclaves of data. the only way to achieve that is through modern  encryption , properly implemented," says mr frymier.  "you can split your data into diamonds and paperclips, and the important thing is to encryption the diamonds, and not to sweat the paperclips." prakash panjwani, a general manager at maryland-based data protection company safenet, also believes that the large number of high-profile data breaches in 2013 - including hacker attacks on us retailer target, software maker adobe, and photo messaging service snapchat - means that 2014 will inevitably be a bumper one for  encryption  vendors.  "snowden has focused attention on surveillance issues, but the real threat is organised crime and the number of data breaches that are occurring," he says.  "companies are going to come under extreme pressure from boards, customers and regulators in 2014 to take action so that if there is a data breach they can say, 'we didn't lose any data because it was  encryption .'" a large number of companies already use  encryption  to protect the data they store on their own systems "at rest", as well as data "in flight" as it is sent over networks to customers, other data centres, or for processing or storage in the cloud.  but ramon krikken, an analyst at gartner, believes that the way  encryption  is used by many of these companies is likely to change in 2014.  "companies are certainly going to have to take  encryption  more seriously thanks to the snowden revelations," he says.  "at the moment many companies are using  encryption  for compliance reasons, not for security. they are not using it to protect their data, but because it is the easiest way to comply with regulations:  encryption  is the auditor's and the regulator's favourite check box item." one question that companies will need to consider is which  encryption  algorithm or cipher to use to best encryption their data. it's an important question as some older ciphers can now be "cracked" relatively quickly using the computing power in a standard desktop pc.   and there is a question mark over whether the nsa may have deliberately used its influence to weaken some  encryption  systems - or even to introduce "back doors" that provide easy access to  encryption  data to anyone who knows of their existence.  "the problem is that even if you can inspect the source code, it is certainly not a given that you would be able to spot a back door," mr krikken says.  he believes it is more important to establish where all the parts of an  encryption  solution come from.  "if you procure software or hardware from overseas, from a country with a government which does not have your best interests at heart, you need to remember that it may not be as secure as you think," mr krikken says.  "so you have to decide who you trust, and find out where the vendor gets all the parts of its product from." another thing companies need to consider when they implement  encryption  is how strong the  encryption  should be. using a longer  encryption  key makes it harder for hackers or governments to crack the  encryption , but it also requires more computing power.  but robert former, senior security consultant for neohapsis, an illinois-based security services company, says many companies are overestimating the computational complexity of  encryption .  "if you have an apple mac, your processor spends far more time making os x looks pretty than it does doing crypto work." he therefore recommends using  encryption  keys that are two or even four times longer than the ones many companies are currently using.  "i say use the strongest cryptography that your hardware and software can support. i guarantee you that the cost of using your available processing power is less than the cost of losing your data because you were too cheap to make the crypto strong enough," he says.   "no-one ever got fired for having  encryption  that was too strong."  plans by apple and google to do more to protect customers' privacy have made the fbi "very concerned". speaking to reporters, fbi boss james comey said the plans to enable  encryption  by default could thwart law enforcement investigations. lives could depend on police forces continuing to get access to the data on devices used by criminals and terrorists, he said. the fbi was talking to both apple and google about its fears, said mr comey. the conversations with tech firms needed to be had before the day when police forces lost access to those devices, he said. "i'd hate to have people look at me and say, 'well how come you can't save this kid?' 'how come you can't do this thing?'" said mr comey in a briefing. his comments came in reaction to a decision by apple to enable a file  encryption  system on its ios 8 software for which it has no keys. this means it would not be able to comply with any official request to help police get at the data on those devices. google has said it too is planning to enable a similar  encryption  system by default on the next version of android. mr comey said he was "very concerned" about these plans because of what they would allow people to do. "what concerns me about this is companies marketing something expressly to allow people to place themselves beyond the law," he said. "i am a huge believer in the rule of law, but i am also a believer that no-one in this country is beyond the law," he added. apple and google have yet to respond to mr comey's comments. ten days prior to mr comey's press statement, ios data forensics expert jonathan zdziarski pointed out that apple's  encryption  system would not stop police getting at data on portable devices.  specifically weakening security systems just to aid the police was a bad decision, he said. "for the sake of privacy and overall security, the only logical solution is to make products as secure as possible, and let good detective work do the crime solving, rather than an easy button," he wrote in a blogpost. google has announced that its next mobile operating system, android l, will encryption users' data by default. the measure will make it more difficult for private information to be hacked or handed to law enforcement agencies.  on thursday, apple said that devices running its new ios8 software would be  encryption  by default, with even the company itself unable to gain access. both firms have offered  encryption  for some time, but many users were unaware of its existence or had not enabled it. earlier this week, apple's boss tim cook posted an online message assuring users the company's philosophy was that a "great customer experience shouldn't come at the expense of your privacy". as well as announcing default  encryption  for all devices running the new ios8 software, mr cook took a thinly veiled swipe at google, saying that apple would not use its customers' information to sell things to them. "we don't 'monetise' the information you store on your iphone or in icloud," he wrote, "and we don't read your email or your messages to get information to market to you." he added that although apple does have an advertising business, called iad, the function can be disabled by users. shortly after, google announced its stance on privacy, also embracing default  encryption . a spokesman said: "for over three years, android has offered  encryption , and keys are not stored off of the device, so they cannot be shared with law enforcement.  "as part of our next android release,  encryption  will be enabled by default out of the box, so you won't even have to think about turning it on." both apple and google follow in the footsteps of the now somewhat beleaguered blackberry, which has  encryption  data by default for some time.  the firms' focus on privacy comes after nude photos of celebrities were leaked online earlier this month. the breach, which affected actress jennifer lawrence, among others, was linked by some security experts to vulnerabilities in apple's icloud storage service.  the introduction of default  encryption  also protects us firms from having to hand over data to law enforcement agencies. as the companies themselves do not have access to users' passwords, which unlock the  encryption , they are not actually in possession of the data concerned. several of the largest us tech firms have been fighting government requests for their users' private data, including microsoft, google, twitter, facebook and dropbox. david emm, a senior researcher at security firm kaspersky lab, told the bbc that automatic  encryption  was "probably more about privacy than about protection". "customers will find some reassurance in the fact that their data can't routinely fall into third-party hands," he said. however he added that the measure only "applies to stuff on a [apple or android] device, but not necessarily to stuff you put in the cloud, which could still be accessible to law enforcement agencies". computing giant microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the uk, us, germany, japan and china has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years.  yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. however, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting microsoft's widely-used exchange email system. and the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. so is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more pcs, or should businesses be more worried? firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a pc.  increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing  malware  that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the pc to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. this is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect  malware , because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. microsoft hack: 3,000 uk email servers unsecuredhundreds of uk firms hacked in global cyber-crisiscyber-flaw affects 745,000 pacemakers security experts have told the bbc that even if it departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "people don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains australian cyber-security researcher robert potter.  mr potter built the washington post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the australian government on cyber-security. "firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." there have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as robbinhood, a  ransomware  that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then  encryption  all files until a bitcoin ransom has been paid. this  malware  held the data of several us city governments hostage in may 2019.  another example is thunderspy, an attack that utilises the direct memory access (dma) function that pc hardware components use to talk to each other. this attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is  encryption , the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "if device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains chris boyd, a  malware  intelligence analyst at security firm  malware bytes.   "remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." the good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to gabriel cirlig, a security researcher with us cyber-security firm human (formerly white ops). "it is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the bbc. typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users.  firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem.  the national institute of standards and technology (nist), an agency within the us department of commerce, continually updates a national vulnerability database (nvd) with new security flaws. the database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity.  carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says mr cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data.  nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "this is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as  phishing  scams,  malware  or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the bbc spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security. "firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says mr boyd.  "it's like when  ransomware  first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." mr boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point mt cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger.  "microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says mr potter.  "as we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. and if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it." the modern world is a house of cards built upon  encryption . make a mobile phone call and  encryption  is there to stop eavesdroppers listening in. spend money online and  encryption  ensures your card number and identity cannot be scooped up and used elsewhere. and the money that keeps global banking systems lubricated only does so thanks to cryptographic software that turns a stream of data into unintelligible nonsense.  remove all that  encryption  and the whole lot comes tumbling down. if that happens we might return to an era when commerce was mostly done face-to-face and based around who you know. yet quantum computers - another modern marvel - are threatening to make this doomsday scenario a reality. why? "because of the possibilities for massive parallelism," says prof mark manulis, a cryptographic expert from the university of surrey's department of computing. in other words, because of a quantum computer's potential ability to do trillions of calculations a second. when a message is scrambled with a modern  encryption  system, the keys used to lock it are typically very large numbers - tens, if not hundreds, of digits long.  finding that key means using a computer to carry out lots of sums and then trying each answer to see if it unlocks a message an attacker is interested in.  the sheer number of possible answers lends protection because it would take centuries, or longer, to find the right key.  unless large-scale quantum computers are commonplace, says prof manulis. quantum computers can crank through those sums so fast because their basic building blocks, known as qubits, can be used to represent both a zero and a one at the same time. by contrast the computational elements, bits, of the classical computers under our desks and on our laps represent either a zero or a one. not both. the curious properties of the quantum realm mean that when those qubits work together you get a vast rise in computational power - hence the potential they have to speed things up, find keys and crack codes.  most significantly affected by the arrival of quantum computers are the public key infrastructure (pki) systems we use to establish secure channels of communication online. typically, when you turn up at a website it is pki that sets up the initial connection. with that secure channel created, different  encryption  systems that are much less susceptible to attack by quantum computers are used to protect data shuttling back and forth. "public key cryptography is based on problems from number theory, integer factorisation and discrete logarithms, that will be broken once we have powerful quantum computers," said prof manulis. the key word here is "once".  but that once might be a long time coming, believes dr stephan ritter, who studies quantum computers at the max planck institute for quantum optics in garching, germany. "quantum computers are not very powerful at the moment but they have this potential, and that's what this is about," he told the bbc.  "experimentally i would say that we are at the stage where it's not even clear which physical elements they will be made of." researchers have yet to agree on the best way to build these qubits and how to link them together. so far, dr ritter says, only quantum computers with a small handful of qubits have been made - a long way from the hundreds and thousands needed to make it able to do useful work and do it quickly. "there are proofs of concept of these building blocks but they all have advantages or disadvantages, so it's unclear which will be the best as we go forward," he says. despite what dr ritter sees as a lack of progress, canadian firm d-wave will sell you a working quantum computer if you have $15m (£8.9m) to spare.  the way it operates is controversial and its price suggests it will not be the widely available device that can crack all our codes. even when they are available, says dr ritter, we should not think of them as wonder machines that speed up any and every batch processing job or database search. purest-ever silicon in quantum fix "they are good for very specific tasks," he says, "but not everything is faster with a quantum computer and there will be many tasks you will not use one for at all."  as a result we should have a few years yet to update and improve our  encryption  systems as research and development work on quantum computers continues. that's just as well, says dr tanja lange, a coding theory and cryptology expert from the technical university of eindhoven, as it can take a long time for older  encryption  systems to be swapped out in favour of more secure alternatives.  for instance, she says, it took five to six years to swap out the widely used md5 data scrambling system once its weakness was demonstrated through a viable attack. timescales can stretch for systems already used widely in the field, such as those found in cash machines, smart cards and mobile phones. "however, if a system is absolutely badly broken, roll-out can be faster," she says. "rsa sent new tokens promptly after they had a break-in and credit card companies are used to replacing cards if there is a risk that they were compromised." what will be harder, she says, is migrating everyone to the software systems that can resist attack by quantum computer. at the very least such systems require much bigger  encryption  keys and that means they are much less efficient - for which read, slower. "we hope that with another three to five years of research we can design systems that are smaller, but we're not there yet," she says.  "currently we can give you a tank with concrete enforcement - it's secure but big. "we hope to find a way to give you a secure sports car with airbags, abs and all that neatly hidden away in a sleek design." telegram, a secure messaging service app, has offered a reward to the first person who can crack its  encryption . the firm's founder has put up an award of $200,000 (£122,000) worth of bitcoins for breaking the protocol. to win the award, users will have to intercept a daily message between the founders pavel and nikolai durov to find out a secret email address. they have to send the decrypted text of the message to the email address to prove they have cracked the protocol. telegram, which says it is "the fastest and most secure messaging system in the world", said users would also have to give a detailed description of how they cracked the  encryption . the firm says it will publish  encryption  telegram traffic between the two founders on its website and users can view it in real time. "to prove that the competition was fair, we will publish the participating keys necessary to decrypt the traffic as soon as a winner is announced," the firm said. in case there is no winner by 1 march 2014,  encryption  keys will be published on that date. customer and staff data has been "compromised" in a security breach of a social housing provider's it system.   flagship group, based in norwich, said the cyber attack on 1 november took "most of our group's systems offline".  it said the incident had been caused by a suspected  phishing  or  ransomware  attack. it said it had closed down its online systems while it was investigated, and had reported the breach to police and the information commissioner's office. on its website it said: "despite our quick action, there has been some data  encryption  and some personal customer and staff data has been compromised. "we do not yet have a complete picture of all the data that has been  encryption ." the company also said it had "a high level of security measures" in place to protect data. flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. chief executive david mcquade apologised to tenants affected by the breach and those experiencing delays in having repairs carried out. "we are now working towards the recovery of all our systems," he said. "the incident has caused considerable disruption to our staff and customer services and we are concentrating on emergency situations, to ensure our customers are safe." the firm said the matter had also been reported to the regulator of social housing. norfolk police said it was being dealt with by the national cyber security centre. the information commissioner's office (ico) confirmed it had been informed. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk  encryption  makes the modern world go round. every time you make a mobile phone call, buy something with a credit card in a shop or on the web, or even get cash from an atm,  encryption  bestows upon that transaction the confidentiality and security to make it possible. "if you consider electronic transactions and online payments, all those would not be possible without  encryption ," said dr mark manulis, a senior lecturer in cryptography at the university of surrey.  at its simplest  encryption  is all about transforming intelligible numbers or text, sounds and images into a stream of nonsense.  there are many, many ways to perform that transformation, some straightforward and some very complex. most involve swapping letters for numbers and use maths to do the transformation. however, no matter which method is used the resulting scrambled data stream should give no hints about how it was  encryption .  during world war ii, the allies scored some notable victories against the germans because their  encryption  systems did not sufficiently scramble messages. rigorous mathematical analysis by allied code crackers laid bare patterns hidden within the messages and used them to recreate the machine used to encryption them. those codes revolved around the use of secret keys that were shared among those who needed to communicate securely. these are known as symmetric  encryption  systems and have a weakness in that everyone involved has to possess the same set of secret keys.  in the modern era, a need has arisen to communicate securely with people and organisations we do not know and with whom we cannot easily share secret keys, said dr manulis. this need has given rise to public-key cryptography. despite the formidable name it encapsulates a simple idea.  essentially, it allows anyone to send a message that only one person (or company or website or gadget) can unlock. it does this using two keys: one public, one private. the public key is used to lock a message. anyone can get hold of that public key but once a message is locked with it, that message can only be opened with the corresponding private key.  typically these keys are large numbers and the security of the system depends on the fact that some mathematical operations are easier than others.  for instance, it is far easier to multiply numbers together (public key and plain text message) to get a result than it is to start with that result (the scrambled message) and work backwards. complicated mathematics guarantees that the right private key will unscramble a message. far harder, even for the fastest computer, is starting with that result (the scrambled message) and searching through all the possible combinations of numbers that could produce it. "because of the size of the keys is so huge its impossible for an attacker to search through the key space with the resources they usually have," he said. such "brute force" attacks are pretty much doomed no matter how much computer power attackers bring to bear, he said  typically the numbers used in these mathematical  encryption  systems are tens if not hundreds of digits long. this makes it impossible, to all intents and purposes, to search through all potential keys in a reasonable amount of time. the web and many other modern communication systems employ a hybrid approach, said dr manulis, because public key  encryption  is not very computationally efficient compared to symmetric key  encryption . on the web, the relatively slower public key cryptography is used initially to establish a secure connection between you and a website. the symmetric system would be no good for this step because there is no way to securely swap the secret key. however, with a secure channel in place, the faster symmetric system can be used to share a key and then scramble the data passing back and forth.  on mobiles, a similar system is used and  encryption  keys are held on a handset's sim card to help keep chatter scrambled.  attacks on these  encryption  systems take many forms, said dr manulis.  "you do not need to break the communication system if you have some spy software on the end point," he said. in addition, weaknesses have been found in the software used to encapsulate them on computers and phones.  "the algorithms are mathematically proven," he said, " and if there's any problem then it usually comes in the implementation of the algorithm." in addition, there have been suggestions that the nsa has subverted the process of creating  encryption  algorithms, to make them easier for it to break. official agencies can also force firms, be they websites or mobile operators, to surrender their private keys so they can eavesdrop on supposedly secure communications. some have sought to get make  encryption  more secure by using a technique known as end-to-end  encryption .  this differs from more standard systems which can be vulnerable because their scrambling system is, in software terms, separate from the program used to create a message.  if attackers insert themselves between the message making software and the  encryption  system at either end of a conversation they will see information before it is scrambled. end-to-end  encryption  closes this gap by having the message making software apply the scrambling directly. in addition, many of these systems run a closed network so messages never travel over the public internet and are only decrypted when they reach their intended recipient. a 33-year-old man from south armagh has appeared in court in newry charged in connection with the supply of class a and class b drugs. william john hewitt, of lower foughill road in jonesborough, is also accused of being involved in an arrangement to acquire criminal property and conspiring to import cannabis.  the charges follow a national crime agency-led operation in the newry area on monday as part of operation venetic. thirteen classic cars were also seized. prosecution barrister robin steer said the investigation follows police obtaining  encryption  data on  encryption  handsets last year.  the court heard that the handsets cost in the region of £1,200 to £1,500 each. the prosecution said evidence secured from the breaking of the  encryption  network indicated mr hewitt is "involved in drug dealing at a very high level and part of a network". the classic cars were seized by police during a series of searches. a notebook was also found behind a microwave in mr hewitt's home which the prosecution said contains terminology, including slang terms for drugs, for use on  encryption  calls.  sums of money totalling around £2m were also recorded in the book. the court heard that to date around 25 people have been charged in relation to operation venetic which began in july 2020.  the vast majority of these people have subsequently been granted bail. however, the prosecution objected to mr hewitt being granted bail "at this early stage". they said this was in relation to concerns that he could frustrate the investigation or flee across the irish border. mr hewitt's defence solicitor said the latter was not a realistic objection as, "practically everyone in northern ireland lives within an hour of the border" and that "it was well reported that the  encryption  network had been cracked last year and there was no suggestion he has tried to abscond since". in relation to the issue of frustrating the investigation, the defence solicitor said that the court could put reporting requirements on the defendant, that they could tag him, place him under a curfew and freeze his assets. however, deputy district judge phillip mateer refused bail, stating: "i'm not satisfied the conditions would give the court confidence that he wouldn't abscond. as the prosecution has said, it is still at an early stage and the concern is that he may frustrate the police investigation by dealing with assets that are not yet known."  mr hewitt was remanded into custody and will appear in court again on 24 march. documents from the former us intelligence contractor, edward snowden, suggest us and british security agencies have managed to unlock the internet  encryption  codes protecting the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. the reports have been published by the new york times and the guardian in london. dr herb lin is the chief computer scientist at the united state's national research council. he said he was surprised that the agencies would attempt to break  encryption s on such a 'large scale'. an eighth member of a county lines drugs gang which used teenagers as slaves has been jailed for six years. anthony kamara, 33, was tracked down by police who cracked secret messages the group sent in  encryption  messages. the 'manc joe' gang operated from liverpool and ran hundreds of thousands of pounds worth of heroin and crack cocaine to exeter during the first seven months of 2020. seven other gang members were sentenced at exeter crown court last year. county lines is where urban drug gangs expand their markets for crack cocaine and heroin into smaller towns and cities. kamara, of ritson street, toxteth, liverpool, admitted conspiracy to supply heroin and cocaine and was jailed for six years by judge peter johnson. the judge told him: "you played a highly significant and active part in bringing drugs down and taking money back and running the phones." peter coombe, for the prosecution, said kamara's role was only just below that of organiser connor wilbraham, 21, from merseyside, who set up the drugs line while on the run from the police. wilbraham was jailed for seven and a half years in december. in november, five other men aged between 21 and 46 were jailed for between two-and-a-half and four years each. lewis rees, now aged 18, of woodchurch estate, birkenhead, was sentenced to two years, suspended for two years. mr rees was deemed to be a modern slave by the national referral mechanism and charges against a 16-year-old were dropped after he received a similar adjudication. the gang were caught because their street dealers became highly visible to police during the first lockdown and detectives were able to trace the leaders through the  encryption  messages on their phones. they used the street names of 'manc joe' or 'joey' in an apparent attempt to hide their merseyside origins. peter white, defending kamara, said he was drawn into the conspiracy after he lost his job with jaguar land rover. how many apps do you have on your phone? if you're anything like me, it's a lot.  but imagine installing just one app that does almost everything - from buying a pizza, hailing a taxi, chatting to your friends and even booking a massage. it does exist and it's known as a super-app.  there are two major players in the market and the most popular, with over a billion users, is wechat. created in 2011 by chinese tech giant tencent, wechat started life as a messaging platform. it is now estimated to offer more than one million services through mini programmes, which are apps created by third-party companies and accessible through wechat. more than an app: trump's wechat ban shocks chinese abroadwhat is tencent? that means you never have to leave wechat's virtual universe (except perhaps to go to the bathroom).  most of these services are only available to users in china, which is why you may not have heard of it despite its dominance. the other main player is ant group's alipay, which also has more than one billion users and offers 120,000 mini programmes.  singapore-based chinese entrepreneurs angeline liu and angee teng saw a unique opportunity to tap into wechat's captive audience.  "wechat is a part of our daily life that we [can't] live without," says ms liu, who spends two to three hours a day on the app. "basically everything you need is within this one app and every part of your life is touched [by it]." three years ago they launched a business selling premium meat to chinese customers in singapore. "you can browse the products, make purchases, make payments and complete the whole cycle within this app," ms liu says. they don't advertise through traditional channels or social media yet business is booming, with tens of thousands of dollars worth of orders rolling in every month. china leapfrogged into the internet era, which means people went from telephones to smartphones pretty quickly.  this allowed internet companies to innovate in a way their counterparts in the west haven't been able to. rui ma, who co-hosts the podcast techbuzz, tells me it's also because data laws in china are quite different.  "in the west we have a lot of rules and regulations, creating a lot of friction around these services that in china the government simply hasn't gotten around to regulating," she says. that's not the only reason. "chinese internet companies think of building entire ecosystems, versus product-first or product-centric companies," she says. "they're not just building a feature or one service. they're thinking about how to take the user's entire lifestyle and move it online." a life lived online means a lot of transactions and a lot of data. under chinese law, all companies - not just wechat - can be compelled to hand over that data to the ruling communist party. the australian strategic policy institute (aspi) says it has found evidence of censorship on wechat in china and warns this could also happen to overseas users.  "the risks associated with wechat's lack of end-to-end  encryption  is that tencent and wechat can have access to any of your data on wechat," says audrey fritz, who co-authored an aspi report looking at the communist party's influence on chinese internet firms. "[they are] bound by [china's] cyber-security laws to give any data on wechat or any of their apps to the government, if the communist party should request that." tencent told the bbc it complies with the laws and regulations of each market it operates in, adding that user privacy and data security are core values.  "user privacy and data security are core values at tencent. we hold ourselves to the highest standards in protecting our users while ensuring we comply with all laws and regulations in the markets in which we operate," the company said.  concern over privacy and data security could be among the reasons it has been difficult for these chinese apps to expand overseas. throw in the fact that the domestic market in china is so big, there's really no need to go anywhere else.   the race to build the world's next super-app is revving up and many of the frontrunners are based in south east asia. with 600 million people spread across the region, there are already half a dozen companies vying for their attention.  grab, gojek and the sea group are among the biggest and best funded.  chinese companies alibaba and tencent have invested in them, as have us firms including facebook, google and paypal.  indonesian-based gojek has grown from a motorcycle-hailing platform to an app offering car rides, payments and food delivery.  singapore becoming hub for china's tech giantsthe airline founder building asia’s next super app gojek co-chief executive kevin aluwi says the region is a natural fit for super-apps. "having to only download one single app is something that is probably uniquely appealing to a part of the world where, for most people, the first real experience of the internet happened on mobile." perhaps surprisingly for a company that calls itself a super-app, mr aluwi says gojek isn't trying to monopolise its users' time. "many super-apps view their objective as to increase the amount of time that customers are actually viewing their app," he says. "for us, we want our customers to get in, find the thing they need to solve their problem at that moment and then get out and get on with their lives." rsa, the internet security firm, has advised its customers not to use a particular  encryption  algorithm after fears it could be unlocked by the us national security agency (nsa). in an advisory note to its developer customers, rsa said that a community-developed algorithm in one of its toolkits could contain a vulnerability. it "strongly recommends" switching to other random number generators instead. the warning came from the us national institute of standards and technology. the advice comes in the wake of new york times allegations that the nsa may have intentionally introduced a flaw into the algorithm - known as dual elliptic curve deterministic random bit generation - and then tried to get it adopted as a security standard by the us national institute of standards and technology. in the 1990s, the nsa tried to claim the right to unlock all  encryption  systems, but lost the battle after privacy rights and freedom of speech advocates objected. the nsa maintains that it needs to be able to decipher  encryption  communications to protect the us against terrorism and organised crime. as the documents leaked by the former government security contractor edward snowden have demonstrated, the nsa has been intercepting communications data from all over the world through its prism surveillance programme. but it is locked in a continuous battle with cryptographers who are developing increasingly sophisticated security systems. one of the nsa's tactics has been to persuade leading technology companies, such as microsoft and google, to co-operate with the security services in providing access to user data. privacy rights campaigners have been concerned over how far this co-operation may extend.  under us law, service providers have to hand over user data to the nsa but are not allowed to publish how many security-related data requests they receive. a growing number of providers are beginning to stand up to the government and demand more transparency. for example, the digital due process coalition, which is calling for reform of the 1986 us electronic communications privacy act (ecpa), includes companies such as apple, google, facebook, amazon, linkedin and microsoft. the coalition argues that the ecpa has been outpaced by the rapid rise of the internet and the explosion of digital data. us and uk intelligence have reportedly cracked the  encryption  codes protecting the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people.disclosures by leaker edward snowden allege the us national security agency (nsa) and the uk's gchq successfully decoded key online security protocols.they suggest some internet companies provided the agencies backdoor access to their security systems.the nsa is said to spend $250m (£160m) a year on the top-secret operation.gordon correra looks at how much the government actually knows about us. us and uk intelligence have reportedly cracked the  encryption  codes protecting the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. disclosures by leaker edward snowden allege the us national security agency (nsa) and the uk's gchq successfully decoded key online security protocols. they suggest some internet companies provided the agencies backdoor access to their security systems. the nsa is said to spend $250m (£160m) a year on the top-secret operation. it is codenamed bullrun, an american civil-war battle, according to the documents published by the guardian in conjunction with the new york times and propublica. the british counterpart scheme run by gchq is called edgehill, after the first major engagement of the english civil war, say the documents. the reports say the uk and us intelligence agencies are focusing on the  encryption  used in 4g smartphones, email, online shopping and remote business communication networks. the  encryption  techniques are used by internet services such as google, facebook and yahoo. under bullrun, it is said that the nsa has built powerful supercomputers to try to crack the technology that scrambles and  encryption  personal information when internet users log on to access various services. the nsa also collaborated with unnamed technology companies to build so-called back doors into their software - something that would give the government access to information before it is  encryption  and sent over the internet, it is reported.  as well as supercomputers, methods used include "technical trickery, court orders and behind-the-scenes persuasion to undermine the major tools protecting the privacy of everyday communications", the new york times reports. the us reportedly began investing billions of dollars in the operation in 2000 after its initial efforts to install a "back door" in all  encryption  systems were thwarted. during the next decade, it is said the nsa employed code-breaking computers and began collaborating with technology companies at home and abroad to build entry points into their products.  the documents provided to the guardian by mr snowden do not specify which companies participated. the nsa also hacked into computers to capture messages prior to  encryption , and used broad influence to introduce weaknesses into  encryption  standards followed by software developers the world over, the new york times reports. when british analysts were first told of the extent of the scheme they were "gobsmacked", according to one memo among more than 50,000 documents shared by the guardian. nsa officials continue to defend the agency's actions, claiming it will put the us at considerable risk if messages from terrorists and spies cannot be deciphered.  but some experts argue that such efforts could actually undermine national security, noting that any back doors inserted into  encryption  programs can be exploited by those outside the government. it is the latest in a series of intelligence leaks by mr snowden, a former nsa contractor, who began providing caches of sensitive government documents to media outlets three months ago. in june, the 30-year-old fled his home in hawaii, where he worked at a small nsa installation, to hong kong, and subsequently to russia after making revelations about a secret us data-gathering programme. a us federal court has since filed espionage charges against mr snowden and is seeking his extradition. mr snowden, however, remains in russia where he has been granted temporary asylum. documents from the former us intelligence contractor, edward snowden, suggest us and british security agencies have managed to unlock internet  encryption  codes that protect the emails, banking and medical records of hundreds of millions of people. the reports have been published by the new york times and the guardian in london. emily thomas reports. major security flaws in popular smart doorbells are putting consumers at risk of being targeted by hackers inside their homes, according to which. the consumer group says devices being sold on marketplaces such as amazon and ebay, could easily be  hacked or switched off by criminals.  it is asking the government for new legislation to safeguard consumers.  amazon has removed at least seven product listings in response to the findings.  'he used our smart doorbell camera to track me'ring logs every doorbell press and app action the watchdog tested 11 devices which were purchased from popular online marketplaces in the uk. brands included qihoo, ctronics and victure.  it found that among the most common flaws were weak password policies, and a lack of data  encryption .  two of the devices in the test could be manipulated to steal network passwords and then hack other smart devices within the home.  amazon uk's current number one bestseller in smart doorbells, the victure smart video doorbell, was found to send users' home network names and passwords un encryption  to servers in china.  the bbc has asked victure for comment.  lisa forte, a partner at red goat cyber security, which specialises in cyber-security testing, said consumers may inadvertently be putting convenience before security.  "generally speaking the more convenient something is, the less secure it is," she told the bbc.  "the more connected devices you have in your home, the more 'doors' there are for cyber-criminals to open. this investigation highlights how many brands aren’t putting the security of their customers first. "if you have decided to purchase a smart doorbell, make sure it is from a well-known, trusted brand. when you set it up change the default password to something long, and if possible enable two-factor authentication in the set-up," she added.  two-factor authentication (2fa) is when a secondary step is introduced to the log-in process, such as a code sent as an email or text. while amazon removed several products from sale, ebay told which? that none of the findings violated its own safety standards.  a spokesman for the marketplace said the flaws represented "technical product issues that should be addressed with the seller or manufacturer".  kate bevan, which? computing editor, said better regulation was needed. "government legislation to tackle unsecure products should be introduced without delay and must be backed by an enforcement body with teeth that is able to crack down on these devices." a drug dealer who tried to escape police by fleeing naked through an upstairs window has been jailed. thomas brabbins was wearing no clothes and carrying just a mobile phone when he left his home in huyton, merseyside. officers had raided the cherry tree road house and found more than £30,000 in cash and two rolex watches worth more than £10,000 in june. the 28-year-old was jailed for seven-and-a half-years at liverpool crown court. he is among several people jailed in the region as part of an international investigation into criminals using the encrochat  encryption  messaging service. brabbins admitted conspiracy to supply cocaine and cannabis, possession of cannabis - including with the intent to supply - and possession of criminal property. he was using the handle "coastalsummer" when he manufactured and distributed large quantities of the drugs from his home, merseyside police said. he was released under investigation after his arrest but was later rearrested after being seen acting suspiciously in a car on 12 november.  the national crime agency said encrochat is often used by criminals to trade drugs and guns.  it was infiltrated last summer, leading to more than 1,000 arrests, including about 70 held by officers in merseyside. police compared the operation to "cracking the enigma code" in their fight against organised crime. merseyside police said about 60,000 users of encrochat had been identified worldwide, with about 10,000 of them in the uk. det sgt anthony meakins said: "brabbins thought that by using  encryption  devices he could evade justice. he was wrong, and he won't be last to realise this." why not follow bbc north west on facebook, twitter and instagram? you can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk the hugely popular video meetings app zoom has "significant weaknesses" which might make it unsuitable for secrets. a team at the citizen lab found that zoom was using a non-standard type of  encryption , and transmitting information through china. government use - such as boris johnson's use of the app for cabinet meetings - may not be wise, the researchers warned. but the app is fine for keeping in touch for most people, they said. until recently, zoom was used mainly by large businesses for video conference calls. but the explosion in users during the coronavirus pandemic has created "a new gold rush for cyber-spies", the citizen lab's report said. it warned that zoom "may not be suitable" for: governments and businesses worried about espionagehealthcare providers handling sensitive patient informationactivists, lawyers and journalists working on sensitive topics but for people using zoom for contacting friends, holding social events or organising courses or lectures, "our findings should not necessarily be concerning", the report said. by joe tidy, cyber-security reporter zoom says there are now 200 million meetings held on it every day, and despite the serious flaws uncovered in this latest report, it's probably safe to say that 199 million of them are not in danger.  the citizen lab has shown compelling evidence here that it is possible to collect all the data of a video meeting and then partially unscramble it to find out, roughly, what was said and what was seen.  uk government defends pm's use of zoomzoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? however, it would take a huge amount of time and effort for a hacker to achieve this - and it simply wouldn't be worth the effort for an average work huddle or friendly pub quiz held on the service. it's the high-level talks at company board level, or in government, that will be targeted.  the government has been led by the national cyber security centre and other security experts on this since the beginning. the goal has always been to allow for open and smooth communications to take place, but this research may well lead to the advice on zoom changing fast.  "zoom has made the classic mistake of designing and implementing their own  encryption  scheme, rather than using one of the existing standards for  encryption  voice and video content," said bill marczak, a research fellow at the citizen lab. "to be sure, zoom's  encryption  is better than none at all, but users expecting their zoom meetings to be safe from espionage should think twice before using the app to discuss sensitive information." the research has not taken the security services in the uk by surprise and it is understood that a project is working "at pace" to adapt existing communication systems to the demands of home working and security. the uk's national cyber security centre issued a statement saying: "zoom is being used to enable unclassified crisis covid-19 communications in the current unprecedented circumstances. assured services are in place for more sensitive communications and the provision of these services is being widened given the demands of much greater remote working." the government is not disclosing which meetings are eligible for zoom and which ones are not. as an example, the bbc was told that zoom is safe for cabinet-level discussions but not for emergency cobra meetings.  aside from the  encryption  standards, the researchers also found that zoom sends traffic to china - even when all the people in a zoom meeting are outside of china. "during multiple test calls in north america, we observed keys for  encryption  and decrypting meetings transmitted to servers in beijing, china," the report said. the report also pointed to the strong involvement of chinese firms in the company. zoom has its headquarters in the us, but has about 700 employees across three companies in mainland china working on the app's development. zoom apologises for security issues, promises fixeszoom under increased scrutiny as popularity soars "running development out of china likely saves zoom having to pay silicon valley salaries, reducing their expenses and increasing their profit margin. however, this arrangement could also open up zoom to pressure from chinese authorities," the report said. the team said there are mixed and confusing messages around the type of  encryption  that zoom actually uses. in some places, it tells users that it uses "end-to-end"  encryption  - the gold standard for secure messaging, which makes it impossible for the service, or any other middlemen, to access data. in its documentation, zoom has said it uses a type of  encryption  called aes-256.  but the researchers said this is not true. instead, zoom has "rolled their own"  encryption  - using a variant of something called aes-128 in "ecb mode". among security researchers, ecb mode "is well understood to be a bad idea", because it preserves some of the patterns of the original, the report said. the report also says that zoom does not use end-to-end  encryption  "as most people understand the term". instead, it uses "transport"  encryption  between devices and servers. "because zoom does not implement true end-to-end  encryption , they have the theoretical ability to decrypt and monitor zoom calls," the report said. but it noted that zoom itself has already addressed this concern, promising that they have never built such a mechanism, even if it is theoretically possible. during their research, the team was able to extract a still image from a video meeting using the  encryption  key. zoom clarified its  encryption  policy on 1 april, apologising for incorrectly suggesting that meetings were capable of end-to-end  encryption . it also moved to quell fears about privacy and security issues, promising to spend the next 90 days exclusively working on  "trust, safety, and privacy issues". alan woodward, a professor of computer science at surrey university, told the bbc that a major fix is needed.  "i don't believe this is something that zoom can just add to their list of jobs to do in the next 90 days. it's possible, but this requires a re-engineering of the way they encryption their calls, so it's a major undertaking."  prof woodward added: "i would not use zoom for any sensitive or secret discussions." three men involved in a "sophisticated" operation to import heroin and cocaine worth more than £180 million have each been jailed for 15 years. daniel taylor, 41, from holywell, flintshire, intercepted parcels where he worked at a ups depot in deeside. he handed them to darren roberts, 44, from bagillt, who gave them to stephen metcalf, 43, from bromborough, wirral. all three were sentenced at mold crown court on friday after admitting conspiracy to import drugs. prosecutor ffion tomos said it was a "well-oiled" operation headed by a man at large abroad.  the court heard between may 2019 and october 2020, 150 packages were imported, mostly undetected.  french authorities intercepted  encryption  phone messages which led to the drugs operation being uncovered. four seizures were made of drugs worth more than £2 million. volunteer rugby coach taylor of glan y don, plumber roberts of cadnant drive and lorry driver metcalf of fairway north were told the drugs could have caused "untold misery". sentencing them, judge rhys rowlands said: "the conspiracy demonstrated both sophistication and professionalism in its execution and was born out of a desire to make money." a  ransomware  attack on multiple schools has left 37,000 pupils unable to access their email. the harris federation, which runs 50 primary and secondary academies in and around london, said it had temporarily disabled email while it deals with the cyber-attack. data on the systems has been  encryption  and hidden by the attackers. last week, the national cyber security centre (ncsc) issued a warning that hackers are targeting schools. “we are at least the fourth multi-academy trust to have been targeted in march,” a statement on the harris federation website said.  “this is a highly sophisticated attack that will have a significant impact on our academies but it will take time to uncover the exact details of what has or has not happened, and to resolve. “as a precaution, we have temporarily disabled our email system.” any devices which the harris federation have given to pupils have also been disabled, the statement added.  however, schools have recently returned to in-person learning as part of the easing of lockdown restrictions - meaning students can still attend classes. harris federation schools break up for easter later this week. its statement did not detail what information or data has been compromised, and it has not yet responded to the bbc's request for comment. the trust is working with “a specialised firm of cyber-technology consultants”, the national crime agency and the ncsc to resolve the issues. the ncsc said it has "recently alerted the education sector to the significant threat posed by  ransomware  attacks" and urged schools and colleges to follow its advice to protect themselves online. it used to be the case that  ransomware  groups concentrated their efforts on large multinational companies. big corporate budgets and potential business interruption mean large ransom payouts. publicly funded schools and colleges are therefore an odd and particularly cruel target. one hacker group recently posted part of their negotiation conversation with another unnamed institution on the dark net. it made for grim reading, and once again showed me how ruthless they are. at one stage, when the hackers demanded $15m, the school wrote: "sir, please, this is not a business with profits. we operate much like a charity operates. this is a state-funded school, our salaries are paid for by taxing the people that live in the state. we have no idea how you think we can afford this." this wave of attacks in the us and uk show the hackers have no regard for where the money comes from or who is affected. mass armed protests initially called for by some extreme trump supporters in the lead-up to inauguration day have so far not materialised, following an apparent change of heart by the groups involved.  one flyer shared on gab, a twitter-like platform popular with far-right groups, had called for armed protests in washington and 50 state capitals ahead of joe biden's inauguration. the plans prompted a warning from the fbi. but in recent days those calls have been reversed and a new theory put forward on fringe platforms - that plans for armed protests were instead a "trap" set up by the fbi, or supporters of the left-wing antifa or black lives matter (blm) groups. some of these discussions have been happening on less popular and less public online platforms, where many trump supporters from far-right and conspiracy groups have migrated after being kicked off facebook and twitter in the wake of the capitol riots on 6 january. the vast majority of armed rallies that were initially being promoted have so far not gone ahead following the warnings.  on sunday, despite earlier fears of violence, there were only a few armed protesters in front of state capitols in several states, including michigan and ohio. those who did turn out were not dedicated trump supporters but mainly members of the extreme libertarian boogaloo bois movement, whose followers advocate an armed overthrow of government.  who are the boogaloo bois? despite a continued belief in unsubstantiated claims of election fraud, many of mr trump's supporters seem resigned to the reality that mr biden will be inaugurated as president on wednesday. although some claim they will never accept him as their president. alongside the new online warnings to avoid armed protests in washington dc and elsewhere, there are a few posts by furious supporters of the president calling for "guerrilla warfare". the lack of armed protests for now could be down to "increased fear about crackdowns by law enforcement following the 6 january," says alex newhouse, research lead at the center on terrorism, extremism, and counterterrorism in the us. he also warns of a different kind of threat from the capitol riots: "the level of desensitisation to concepts like race war, civil war, and political violence that occurs in these chatrooms means that if even a tiny fraction of 1% of followers take it seriously, that could indicate a higher potential of individual acts of extreme violence."  and what about the baseless qanon conspiracy theory, which has been blamed for radicalising so many and whose members were among those that stormed the capitol?  qanon followers remain convinced that somehow mr trump, with the help of the military, will successfully overturn the outcome of the election on inauguration day. what is qanon? they believe mr trump will invoke the insurrection act, a rarely used 1807 law that allows the president to deploy military forces inside the us. there is no evidence to suggest this could happen.  followers of the conspiracy have also been sharing false or doctored images and videos of the fencing around the capitol building - built to ensure the safety of those attending the inauguration and avoid a repeat of the 6 january riots - with claims the fencing is in fact a military prison which will be used to entrap mr biden and members of the so-called "deep state". who are proud boys and antifa?the 65 days that led to chaos at the capitol   there's also an increasing sense of paranoia. groups on alternative platforms that openly called for violence on 6 january now worry aloud that they have been infiltrated by government agents or left-wing activists.  owners and moderators of right-wing social media platforms have posted messages asking members not to post incitement to violence. but violent threats against house speaker nancy pelosi, a democrat, and republican vice-president mike pence, whom the groups had hoped would overturn the election result, remain widespread. the move away from mainstream platforms poses a risk, according to mina al-lami, jihadism specialist at bbc monitoring, who sees parallels with islamist militant groups who have been subject to similar crackdowns. "members of the fringe far-right may now slip under the radar into closed spaces which use end-to-end  encryption ," a very secure method of exchanging messages, she says. "their radicalisation goes unchecked and unmonitored."  the social media giants acted to remove qanon groups after the violence in washington, but they have quickly rebuilt themselves elsewhere.  on gab, groups dedicated to qanon now boast more than 500,000 members. a similar new channel on telegram has more than 100,000 subscribers.  meanwhile, accounts spreading conspiracy theories and potentially inciting violence have emerged in surprising places. tiktok, the short-form video platform hugely popular among young people, has seen a flood of clips from pro-trump militia groups. tiktok videos from militia groups are concerning, says ciaran o'connor of the institute for strategic dialogue, a think tank focused on extremism and hate groups.  users have been sharing footage of members preparing firearms, as well as promoting false claims that president trump has activated the insurrection act. stop the steal: the roots of trump's voter fraud claimswho broke into the capitol building during the riots? extremist supporters have been taking advantage of tiktok's slow moderation process, which means that videos can stay online for long periods of time before they are deleted for violating the network's terms of service, mr o'connor says. some of the more violent and conspiratorial pro-trump groups may have been scattered across the internet following purges at mainstream platforms, but that doesn't mean they've gone away.  they realise they're under close scrutiny from the us authorities, but they're preparing to dig in for a long fight.  a special programme from the bbc trending team.  listen now on bbc sounds. subscribe to the bbc trending podcast or follow us on twitter @bbctrending or facebook.  the european commission says it wants its newly proposed satellite mega-constellation to be offering some sort of initial service in 2024. the first priority is to fill in gaps in broadband coverage where ground infrastructure cannot reach, but later it will power services such as self-driving cars.  the project will in some ways mirror america's starlink and the uk-indian oneweb networks. its scope has yet to be fully defined.  a consortium of aerospace and telecoms companies is doing that right now. but eu internal market commissioner thierry breton said he wanted to get going on the idea as soon as possible. "my objective is to go fast. and therefore it would be appropriate that the commission puts forward this year a proposal to the european parliament and the council so we can move concretely," he told the 13th european space conference on tuesday. "to be ready, we launched a few weeks ago a study on a secure space-based connectivity system. the selected consortium consisting of european satellite manufacturers, operators and service providers, telco operators and launch service providers will study the possible design and development of this project. "this will provide insights on the technical dimension, but also the governance structure, the financing, the missions, the exact scope. i expect their first feedback in april this year." elon musk's starlink given green light in ukoneweb satellite company launches into new eraconcern over satellite impact on giant telescope the secure communications system would be the next flagship space project to come out of the eu after the galileo satellite-navigation constellation and the copernicus programme with its earth observing sentinel spacecraft. eu officials have only spoken in the broadest terms about what they want to see from the new telecommunications project.  they talk about a mix of low, medium and geostationary satellites that use advanced quantum  encryption , are interlinked with optical connectors, and which piggyback sensors that might also be used to monitor aviation and shipping - just as examples. but, they argue, fast, secure, low-latency, space-borne connectivity will be the must-have capability to enable a raft of coming technologies, such as self-driving cars.   europe needs such a capability if it wants to stay globally competitive.  the primary motivation in the first instance, however, would be to fill those last "not spots" in member states where ground infrastructure is incapable of delivering broadband services - thought to be at least five million households. pressed on cost, eu officials told reporters on tuesday that any estimate would have to wait on the industrial consortium's report in the spring. nonetheless, experience says it would be in the billions of euros price bracket. and as to where the money will come from to make it all happen, the preferred option seems to be some sort of public-private partnership. the officials said the commission had some funds across its various directorates that it could call on, but that they expected industry, individual member states and the european space agency to invest in the system as well. whatever the system looks like and however it is funded, speed of implementation will be paramount.  the starlink broadband mega-constellation, which is being built by us entrepreneur elon musk's spacex company, has already started offering "beta", or trial, broadband connections in northern europe; and oneweb, owned by indian conglomerate bharti global and the british government, hopes to have an initial offering for its northern european customers later this year. "from the first idea about galileo through to the first operational service in europe, it has taken 20 years; we don't have 20 years [for this new project]," observed jean-marc nasr, the head of airbus space systems, which leads the feasibility consortium. "speed is of the essence here. the idea of the european space infrastructure has been on the table since early 2020. we cannot have the first service in 2040. if we do that, we are dead.  "we have to have the service operational at the end of this decade at the latest. and this requires all of us to work as a team to deliver the best competitive service and technical background to europe." there is talk of having the entire network in place by the end of the new eu multi-annual budget period, which is 2027.  one issue of supreme importance for the implementation of the network will be securing the radio frequencies on which it will operate, as pointed out by riadh cammoun, vice president of public and regulatory affairs at the franco-italian satellite manufacturer thales alenia space. "we need funding, we need a vision, we need leadership, but also we need frequency rights to sustain the launch of a european low-earth orbit constellation," he told the conference. the commission said it had been working for some months already to try to secure those frequencies. the allocation and use of satellite frequencies is negotiated through the international telecommunications union (itu).   a 15-year-old boy shared sexual images of "extreme self-harming" after being groomed online. cardiff crown court heard he thought he was sending hundreds of images to his girlfriend over the course of a year. but they were in fact sent to darren hart, 29, from glasgow, who has been jailed for eight-and-a-half years. hart, who pleaded guilty to 10 charges of sex offences, befriended the boy through online gaming, then created a fake persona.  prosecution barrister matthew roberts told the court the boy was told he had to send the images because the woman had been captured in america and "was being held by a gang who would hurt and rape her if he didn't do what was being demanded of him". the court heard the boy's parents removed computer devices from him after concerns were raised at school and indecent images were found on them. but his abuser hart, managed to send him an internet-enabled mobile phone so he could continue sending the extreme images, which were sent through multiple  encryption  social media accounts to the fictitious girlfriend. 'shocking' scale of online child abusesiblings targeted in ‘new online grooming trend’warrants uncover '160,000 child images' mr roberts said the boy had been "totally brainwashed by the defendant" into making hundreds of images and videos of sexual acts of "extreme self-harming at the direction of the defendant". hart was arrested while on his way, with his stepfather, to meet the boy in south wales and to "remove him for sexual purposes to scotland" without the knowledge of his parents.  hart's phone had 364 images and 192 videos of the boy along with a note containing a "shopping list of requirements" of acts for the boy to carry out.  the court heard that the boy saw his family as "the enemy", although their relationship had been repaired recently.  in a victim impact statement, the boy's father told the court of his "horror that this abuse could be carried out anonymously from behind a keyboard".  he added: "i shudder at what happened and what could have happened if the defendant had succeeded in taking away my son".  the boy said he had hundreds of physical scars as a result and had carried out the acts because he felt that his girlfriend was "in peril and danger". he added that he felt he had lost a lot of his childhood and found it hard to trust people. defence barrister susan ferrier told the court that darren hart had an "introverted character" with no history of offending.  she said that was a "lonely man who struggled with his mental health" and who had been in a secret relationship with his stepfather since he was 18.  she said the offending had occurred in a gap in that relationship. he pleaded guilty to 10 charges of sexual offences at an earlier hearing. recorder timothy brennan said darren hart had committed "multiple offences over a long period by cruel deception" and that the case was "so astonishing, were it not known to be true, it would be difficult to believe".  he said hart had shown an inability to realise how serious the offences were and that there was a "significant risk" of further offending. hart was sentenced to eight-and-a half years in prison with an extended period of four years on licence. he must also comply with a sexual harm prevention order indefinitely. the us government says it has thwarted attempts by militant groups to raise funds using digital currency, or cryptocurrency. the campaigns involved hamas' military wing, the al-qassam brigades, al-qaeda and the islamic state group (is). us officials said about $2m (£1.5m) in cryptocurrency had been recovered. hundreds of cryptocurrency accounts, four websites and four facebook accounts were also seized, the justice department announced in a statement. islamic state still uk's 'most significant' threatis prisoner issue a ticking timebomb for the west "these actions represent the government's largest-ever seizure of cryptocurrency in the terrorism context," the department said. the al-qassam brigades used social media and its official websites to solicit bitcoin donations according to the justice department. it said government agents seized control of one website to redirect payments away from the group, which is the armed wing of the palestinian militant islamist organisation hamas. search warrants have been issued against people based in the us who donated. al-qaeda militants based in syria, meanwhile, sought donations to purchase weapons via the messaging app telegram. the justice department said is had used a website and facebook pages to sell fake covid-19 personal protective equipment to collect funds. "nothing was hidden," an unnamed us official told reuters news agency, adding that the militant groups "thought they were protected" by  encryption  in the apps they used. video-game-maker capcom has warned a  ransomware  attack might have compromised gamers' personal information. up to 350,000 people could be affected, it said, and some of its own financial information had been stolen. the japanese developer is best known for franchises such as resident evil, street fighter, and monster hunter. a week-and-a-half earlier, it had said there was no indication customer information had been accessed. but in an update on monday, capcom confirmed its servers had been hit by an attack on 2 november.   ransomware  is  malware  that typically threatens to block a victim's access to their own records unless a blackmail payment is made. in this case, the attackers digitally scrambled some of the data on capcom's servers, making it impossible to view or amend, and destroyed some files outright. the ragnar locker hacker group had then demanded to be paid to undo the  encryption  involved, capcom said. on ragnor locker's dark-net webpage, the hackers didn't just post capcom's data but also an ominous message. in broken english they wrote the japanese company didn't "make a right decision and save data from leakage".  this - and the fact capcom is openly talking about the hack - suggests the company chose not to pay the cyber-criminals' extortion demand. many, including law enforcement, would actually see this as absolutely the right decision. for 18 months, police the world over have been desperately imploring  ransomware  victims not to pay hackers. the groups have made millions from companies, which often feel they have no other option but to fork out. but it seems capcom has found a way through without yielding.  no doubt the incident has affected the firm's reputation and some sensitive data is already surfacing online. but reading the disappointment in ragnor locker's statement is refreshing and rare. so far, capcom has confirmed only nine people's personal information was definitely compromised, all current or former employees. but up to 350,000 customers, business partners, and other employees might also be affected, it said. although, it could not be sure because its own logs had been "lost as a result of the attack". resident evil-maker hit in latest gaming hackgame firms targeted as part of global hacking plot the information includes different combinations of names, addresses, birthdays, phone numbers and email addresses, depending on why the data was gathered.  for example, some was from japanese customer support and some from the american capcom store or e-sports operation. "none of the at-risk data contains credit-card information," capcom's statement said.  "all online transactions... are handled by a third-party service provider. "and as such, capcom does not maintain any such information internally." the company also said it was safe for gamers to continue to play its games online and to use its websites. police have been notified, as have the japanese and uk data-protection watchdogs. "capcom would once again like to reiterate its deepest apologies for any complications or concerns caused by this incident," it said.  "as a company that handles digital content, it is regarding this incident with the utmost seriousness." a novel use of  encryption  by whistle-blowing website wikileaks could "challenge the legal system for years to come," according to an influential observer of the hacking community.  emmanuel goldstein, editor of 2600 the hacker quarterly magazine, made his comments in reference to an  encryption  file recently posted on the site. some suspect the file - as yet unopened - contains further sensitive material. it has been reposted around the web and is available for anyone to download. so far, it has beeen downloaded 100,000 times.  "if you release it in  encryption  form, nobody really knows if you've released it or not - or even what the material is," mr goldstein told bbc news.  "then, if something happens to you, all it takes is the revelation of a simple spoken phrase known by a select group of people and everyone who has this mystery file now has all of the secrets." wikileaks recently published 76,000 secret us military logs detailing military actions in afghanistan; an act the us authorities described as highly irresponsible. the website now says it will release 15,000 further sensitive documents, once it has completed a review aimed at minimising the risk that the release could put people's lives in danger. the site came under criticism after it released the first tranche for endangering the lives of informants or others named in the documents.  the release of the logs has led many to wonder what action the us might take against wikileaks. now it seems the site may be using  encryption  as insurance against legal and other threats to the information it holds. the insurance.aes256 file has been posted alongside the already published leaked war logs and can be downloaded by anyone.  from the file name, it is believed that it has been  encryption  using the aes256 algorithm - described as "extremely strong" by professor whitfield diffie, of the information security group at royal holloway university, london. prof diffie believes that aes256, which he says has been "extensively studied" could prove too tough even for us intelligence agencies to break. while no-one knows what the insurance file contains, this has not prevented the contents becoming a matter of considerable speculation. some suspect that the file contains a further leaked us military video, others that it is another tranche of us military logs - perhaps this time from iraq. or it could  just be an imaginative bluff. even the name of the directory in which it is held - "straw-glass-and-bottle" - has prompted discussion and debate online. speaking at a recent event at london's frontline club, wikileaks founder julian assange told attendees how the use of  encryption  could help overcome legal efforts to prevent publication. mr assange told the bbc that wikileaks had often distributed  encryption  material among its members in order to protect it. "we have over a long period of time distributed  encryption  backups of material we have yet to release," he told the gathering. "all we have to do is release the password to that material and it is instantly available," he said. by publishing the  encryption  documents publicly, mr assange said wikileaks was protecting material of historical value. "that duty to history is something that weighs heavily with us. if you had the stasi archive in your pocket, that is a very heavy pocket indeed," he said. "we take precautions to make sure that sort of material is not going to disappear from history regardless of the sort of threats to this organisation." but with the "insurance file" wikileaks has taken the unusual step of making an  encryption  backup - if that is indeed what it is - publicly available online. emanuel goldstein told the bbc: "julian is smart. he always has a backup, which is the rule of thumb in this community." but he believes this goes further than just a need to preserve information. "it's a fascinating tactic and one which will challenge the legal system for years to come." in mr goldstein's view, any attempt now to seize or prevent publication of material held by wikileaks will be self-defeating because thousands of copies will already have been distributed world wide. it is, he says, "a tactic of intelligence to ward off the inevitable clampdown." but cindy cohn, legal director of the electronic frontier foundation is less convinced the file represents a challenge to the us government. "i don't see it as a challenge, as much as being open about what's going on," she told the bbc. in ms cohn's view the idea of circulating  encryption  copies of information to keep it safe is well-established. the tactic, according to ms cohn, has been used in the past by human rights groups and other organisations. she points to projects like freenet, which use  encryption  and wide distribution of data to resist censorship. "wikileaks is doing the same basic thing in a more directly political context and using  encryption  to allow them to be more open about it on the front end." for prof diffie, the release of information in this way does open up interesting possibilities. "in a sense communications networks can be defined entirely by who has cryptographic keys, and i think a lot of networks will work that way in the future." that's a view which will not be good news for those trying to prevent groups sharing and publishing leaked material. "i think that the people who are trying to shut down wikileaks are going to have to accept this as a fact of reality that cryptography allows you to do this kind of thing," prof diffie said. popular videoconferencing app zoom has seen its revenues skyrocket as second quarter profits more than doubled due to the coronavirus crisis. revenues leaped 355% to $663.5m (£496.3m) for the three months ending 31 july, beating analysts' expectations of $500.5m. profits soared to $186m, while customer growth rose 458%, compared with the same period in 2019. video conferencing apps remain crucial due to the increase in remote working. zoom's shares hit a record high on monday, closing at $325.10, as the firm raised its annual revenue forecast by more than 30% to the range of $2.37bn-$2.39bn, from its previous projection of $1.78bn-$1.80bn. key to zoom's success was its ability to add paying customers - high-budget corporate clients - as opposed to those who use its services for free.  zoom sees sales boom amid pandemiccoronavirus: zoom under increased scrutiny as popularity soars the company said that its large customers - firms that generated more than $100,000 in revenue in the past year - doubled to 988 during the quarter. zoom, together with rivals cisco webex and microsoft teams, have all seen a surge in usage of their video conferencing platforms since coronavirus lockdown measures were imposed by multiple countries in march.  but zoom's soaring popularity has also strained its infrastructure, with some outages last week as schools in many parts of the us resumed classes virtually. its reputation also took a hit, as the new attention prompted hackers to hijack meetings and exposed a host of security flaws, revealing that the firm had sent user data to facebook, had wrongly claimed the app had end-to-end  encryption , and was allowing meeting hosts to track attendees. zoom has also faced political scrutiny for its ties to china - where it has more than 700 staff, including most of its product development team - which have prompted warnings that it is not fit for government use. facebook, whatsapp, twitter, google and telegram have all said they are "pausing" co-operation with requests for user information from the hong kong police. several countries have criticised china for imposing a new security law, which they say threatens the territory's long-standing autonomy. the announcements are likely to put pressure on apple to do likewise. while the others' services are blocked in mainland china, apple's are not. however, facebook, google and twitter do generate revenue from selling advertising to chinese clients. apple complied with the majority of requests it received from hong kong's government between january and june, before the new law came into effect, according to the firm's latest transparency report. microsoft - which has also previously handed over data about its users to hong kong's authorities, and maintains a significant presence in mainland china - has not announced a change in policy either. the bbc has asked the two companies for comment. chat app telegram - headquartered in london - was first to announce plans to halt co-operation. "we understand the right of privacy of our hong kong users," the firm told the hong kong free press on sunday. "accordingly, telegram does not intend to process any data requests related to its hong kong users until an international consensus is reached in relation to the ongoing political changes in the city." facebook followed saying it would stop considering the requests, "pending further assessment" of the human rights issues. no personal information about users in the region was held at, or disclosed from, its hong kong office, it added. "we believe freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and support the right of people to express themselves without fear for their safety or other repercussions," facebook said. china warns uk over hong kong 'interference'why huawei's days in the uk could be numbered whatsapp - which is owned by facebook - said it "believes in the right for people to have a private conversation online" and "we remain committed to providing private and secure messaging services to our users in hong kong". both platforms are blocked in mainland china but have benefited from hong kong's much broader access to the internet under its freedoms as a special administrative region.  google said it paused production on any new data requests when the new rules came into effect last week. "we'll continue to review the details of the new law," a spokeswoman told the bbc. twitter said it acted likewise. whatsapp has end-to-end  encryption  enabled by default - so it cannot read, or share with police officers, messages sent between two users. on facebook messenger, however,  encryption  is not the default option - it has to be manually switched on by users. both platforms say they may disclose user data, in accordance with the law of the country in question. but whatsapp adds successful requests for this information must meet "internationally recognised standards including human rights, due process, and the rule of law". in the us, both platforms require a subpoena to provide "basic subscriber records" such as the person's name, ip (internet protocol) address and email address.  extra information about the subscriber may require a court order. and a search warrant is needed for account contents: on facebook, that includes "messages, photos, videos, posts and location information on whatsapp, it means profile photos, contacts lists, and group information hong kong, formerly a british territory, was handed back to china in 1997, on the condition it would enjoy special freedoms for 50 years. the uk says china has now broken that agreement and is offering citizenship to as many as three million hong kong residents. meanwhile, the united states - where most of the tech firms involved are headquartered - is considering whether to remove hong kong's favourable trading terms. the security laws introduce new crimes, including conspiring with foreigners to provoke "hatred" of the chinese government or hong kong authorities, with penalties of up to life in prison.  as soon as they came into effect, senior members of pro-democracy groups quit, fearing prosecution.  and books written by pro-democracy activists have been removed from libraries. technology which allows the police to gather data from some mobile phones or tablets without using a password will be rolled out from monday.  police scotland has spent more than £500,000 buying 41 desktop-sized machines which override  encryption  on devices. the move has already been delayed amid concerns the technology may be unlawful. the force insisted the devices would significantly speed up investigations.   phones now form a major part of criminal investigations and forensic experts in scotland examine about 15,000 a year. the police devices - known as "cyber kiosks" - will plug into phones or tablets and trained operators will then look for information relevant to an investigation.  only information held on devices, such as social media messages or call logs, can be accessed by police scotland and the force says all logs of the data captured are deleted after an examination.   call to delay use of police scotland data devicespolice scotland cyber kiosks 'could be unlawful'should police be allowed to forensically search mobiles? deputy chief constable malcolm graham said: "increases in the involvement of digital devices in investigations mean that demand on digital forensic examinations is higher than ever.  "current limitations, however, mean the devices of victims, witnesses and suspects can be taken for months at a time, even if it later transpires that there is no worthwhile evidence on them. "by quickly identifying devices which do and do not contain evidence, we can minimise the intrusion on people's lives and provide a better service to the public." the force has published a video to explain more about the new devices to the public.  seized units being examined by the police will include those handed over voluntarily by victims and witnesses, as well as those obtained under the authority of a judicial warrant, statutory power or following a suspect's arrest. the technology was first trialled in both edinburgh and stirling in 2016 using phones and sim cards which had been legally seized by frontline officers. however, this came in for criticism, including from holyrood's justice sub-committee, after it emerged members of the public whose phones were seized and searched were not made aware they were taking part in the trial.  police scotland has since "acknowledged that the previous trials fell below the standard that would be expected of the service" but the force said concerns about the use of personal data have been the subject of "extensive consultation and scrutiny". the full rollout of the devices, which have seen 410 frontline officers trained to use them, is expected to be completed by may. a number of groups, including the scottish human rights commission and privacy international, have argued that the legal basis for device examination has not been made sufficiently clear.  clare connelly, of the faculty of advocates, has previously said she does not believe the technology complies with european law.  police scotland said these concerns had been addressed. separately, the crown office and independent senior counsel have said a legal basis exists for the use of cyber kiosks. an israeli man has been indicted on charges of spying for iran and preparing terrorist attacks.  shin bet, the country's internal security service, said the man had been in discussions with iranian intelligence to recruit israeli arabs to carry out attacks.  he has been charged with "infringement of the security of israel".  israel and iran have been arch-foes since the 1979 iranian revolution, with iran denying israel's right to exist. the man who has been charged cannot be named for legal reasons.  shin bet said when the man was arrested last month, he was in possession of an  encryption  device and a computer hard drive. the agency said he had been paid to provide iran with information on important sites in israel.  coronavirus: israel enables emergency spy powers trump releases middle east plan with netanyahu according to court files the accused was in contact with a lebanese man who is a member of the popular front for the liberation of palestine group. they allegedly met in two separate locations.  he is also alleged to have met two people in budapest who said they belonged to the iranian security forces.  in that meeting he provided the pair with information meant to help iran "harm israel", haaretz newspaper reports.  "during these trips, he received funds, training,  encryption  tools and codes in order to be able to maintain contact with them in an  encryption  way after he returned to israel," shin bet said, according to the times of israel.   last year a former israeli cabinet minister, gonen segev, was jailed after he admitted spying for iran. the youngest person convicted of a terrorism offence in the uk - who plotted to murder police in australia on anzac day aged 14 - can be freed from jail, the parole board has ruled. the 20-year-old, from blackburn, who can only be identified as rxg, sent  encryption  messages inciting an australian to launch attacks in 2015. he was jailed for life that year after admitting inciting terrorism overseas. but the parole board now says it is "satisfied" he is suitable for release. "after considering the circumstances of his offending, the progress made while in detention, and the evidence presented at the hearings, the panel was satisfied that rxg was suitable for release," the board said in a document detailing the decision. the race to stop the teenage terrorist during his trial, the court heard how at the age of 14, the boy adopted an older persona in messages to alleged australian jihadist sevdet besim, 18, instructing him to kill police officers at the remembrance parade. he sent thousands of messages suggesting mr besim get his "first taste of beheading" by attacking "a proper lonely person". australian police were alerted to the plot after british officers discovered material on the teenager's phone. a written summary of the parole board decision reveals that two hearings took place to consider the decision - hearings that included evidence from rxg himself. the summary records that "no-one at the hearing considered there to be a need for further time" in custody and that "all necessary work had been completed". rxg, who became eligible for parole in october, is said to have "undertaken extensive specialist work in detention to address his offending behaviour, his understanding of islam and to develop his level of maturity". the parole board panel noted that "considerable progress that had been made", the summary records. license conditions for the 20-year-old a requirement to live at designated address, wearing an electronic tag, and limits on his contacts, movements and activities. a ban on identifying rxg, made when he was sentenced, would normally have expired on his 18th birthday, but a number of media organisations made representations to the high court, arguing that he should be named. but in 2019, the court ruled identifying him was likely to cause him "serious harm", and so granted him lifelong anonymity. the decision taken by the judge, dame victoria sharp, has only been made in a small number of cases. in 2016, two brothers who had tortured other children in south yorkshire were granted lifelong anonymity. lifelong anonymity under new identities was also been granted after release to mary bell, the newcastle child killer; maxine carr, who obstructed police investigating the 2002 soham murders by her partner ian huntley; and jon venables and robert thompson, who murdered liverpool toddler james bulger. bbc click's paul carter looks at some of the best of the week's technology news including: us president donald trump launches a new attack on apple over the tech giant's data  encryption  rulesmicrosoft ends support for its windows 7 operating systemmusic streaming service spotify announces bespoke curated playlists for pets depending on their "character attributes"see more at click's website and @bbcclick the videoconferencing app zoom has come under fresh high-level scrutiny as its popularity soars during the coronavirus pandemic. new york's attorney general has written to the firm raising concerns over its ability to cope with the rise in users. zoom is now being used by millions of people for work and leisure, as lockdowns are imposed in many countries. but its data security and privacy measures have been questioned. the letter from the office of new york attorney general letitia james asked zoom whether it had reviewed its security measures since its popularity surged. it also pointed out that in the past the app had been slow to address issues. in response to a request from the bbc for comment, a company spokesperson said: "zoom takes its users' privacy, security, and trust extremely seriously. "during the covid-19 pandemic, we are working around-the-clock to ensure that hospitals, universities, schools, and other businesses across the world can stay connected and operational. we appreciate the new york attorney general's engagement on these issues and are happy to provide her with the requested information," it added. zoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it?racist 'zoombombing' during synagogue meetinglaid off over zoom: firms cut staff by conference call users have flocked to zoom as governments around the world ordered large parts of their populations to stay at home to slow the spread of the computer-virus . it is now ranked as the number two and number one app in the uk and us, respectively. zoom has had security flaws in the past, including a vulnerability which allowed an attacker to remove attendees from meetings, spoof messages from users and hijack shared screens. another saw mac users forced into calls without their knowledge. it also doesn't offer end-to-end  encryption , according to online news publication the intercept. this is  encryption  that should mean no-one other than participants can see a meeting.  zoom told it: "currently, it is not possible to enable e2e  encryption  for zoom video meetings." this means zoom can access the video and audio of meetings, it reported. because zoom uses email domains to identify users who may be in the same company, the service will sometimes allow small internet service providers' customers to see each others' private data, reported vice's tech website motherboard.  the company told motherboard that it regularly updates a  list of private email providers to avoid this.  zoom has also been criticised for its "attendee tracking" feature, which, when enabled, lets the host of the zoom call check if participants are clicking away from the main zoom window during a call. more recently, the uk prime minister boris johnson last week tweeted a picture of himself chairing a cabinet meeting using zoom, leading to questions about how secure it was. the company has pushed back at those concerns, telling the bbc: "globally, 2,000 institutions ranging from the world's largest financial services companies to leading telecommunications providers, government agencies, universities, healthcare and telemedicine practices have done exhaustive security reviews of our user, network and data centre layers confidently selecting zoom for complete deployment." "we are in close communication with the uk ministry of defence and national cyber security centre and are focused on providing the documentation they need." cyber-security companies are warning about the rise of so-called 'extortionware' where hackers embarrass victims into paying a ransom. experts say the trend towards ransoming sensitive private information could affect companies not just operationally but through reputation damage. it comes as hackers bragged after discovering an it director's secret porn collection. the targeted us firm has not publicly acknowledged that it was hacked. in its darknet blog post about the hack last month, the cyber-criminal gang named the it director whose work computer allegedly contained the files. it also posted a screen grab of the computer's file library which included more than a dozen folders catalogued under the names of porn stars and porn websites. the infamous hacker group wrote: "thanks god for [named it director]. while he was [masturbating] we downloaded several hundred gigabytes of private information about his company's customers. god bless his hairy palms, amen!" the blog post has been deleted in the last couple of weeks, which experts say usually implies that the extortion attempt worked and the hackers have been paid to restore data, and not publish any more details. the company did not respond to requests for comment. the same hacker group is also currently trying to pressure another us utility company into paying a ransom, by posting an employee's username and password for a members-only porn website. another  ransomware  group which also has a darknet website shows the use of similar tactics. the relatively new gang has published private emails and pictures, and is calling directly for the mayor of a hacked municipality in the us to negotiate its ransom. in another case, hackers claim to have found an email trail showing evidence of insurance fraud at a canadian agriculture company. brett callow, a threat analyst at cyber-security company emsisoft, says the trend points to an evolution of  ransomware  hacking. "this is the new norm. hackers are now actually searching the data for information that can be weaponised. if they find anything that is incriminating or embarrassing, they'll use it to leverage a larger pay-out. these incidents are no longer simply cyber-attacks about data, they are full-out extortion attempts." another example of this was seen in december 2020, when the cosmetic surgery chain the hospital group was held to ransom with the threat of publication of 'before and after' images of patients.  ransomware  has evolved considerably since it first appeared decades ago. criminals used to operate alone, or in small teams, targeting individual internet users at random by booby-trapping websites and emails. in the last few years, they've become more sophisticated, organised and ambitious. criminal gangs are estimated to be making tens of millions of dollars a year, by spending time and resources targeting and attacking large companies or public bodies for huge pay-outs, sometimes totalling millions of dollars. brett callow has been following  ransomware  tactics for years, and says he saw another shift in methods in late 2019. "it used to be the case that the data was just  encryption  to disrupt a company, but then we started seeing it downloaded by the hackers themselves. "it meant they could charge victims even more because the threat of selling the data on to others was strong." this latest trend of threatening to publicly damage an organisation or individual has particularly concerned experts because it is hard to defend against. keeping good backups of company data helps businesses to recover from crippling  ransomware  attacks, but that is not enough when the hackers use extortionware tactics. cyber-security consultant lisa ventura said: "employees should not be storing anything that could harm a firm reputationally on company servers. training around this should be provided by organisations to all their staff. "it's a troubling shift in angle for the hackers because  ransomware  attacks are not only getting more frequent, they are also getting more sophisticated. "by identifying factors such as reputational damage, it offers far more leverage to extort money from victims." a lack of victim reporting and a culture of cover-up makes estimating the overall financial cost of  ransomware  difficult. experts at emsisoft estimate that  ransomware  incidents in 2020 cost as much as $170bn (£123bn) in ransom payments, downtime and disruption. zoom is implementing new security measures as it battles to prevent hackers from "zoombombing" video calls.  trolls have been disrupting video conferences with offensive content, including racist and homophobic imagery.  those with free zoom accounts must use a password for all meetings.  it follows reports that a sexual assault awareness meeting on the platform was targeted by a hacker who posted a video depicting child abuse.  zoom support meeting 'hacked' with child abuse imageszoom meetings targeted by abuse footage sharers zoom has been attempting to toughen up its security measures ever since it vowed to fix its "biggest trust, safety and privacy" issues in april.  its latest move, aimed at free users of its platform, will be implemented on 9 may.  a new level of  encryption  will also be introduced across the platform from 30 may, which it says will "provide increased protection for meeting data and resistance against tampering".    jo o'reilly, deputy editor at proprivacy, has suggested that zoom still has some way to go if it is to stop large-scale companies such as google from banning the use of the platform.  "this update may be enough to get consumers back on board," she told the bbc.  "however, if they want to turn the tide of big companies and government moving away from using zoom, it is going to take more than superficial fixes such as enforced passwords. "the bigger issues such as the of the lack of end-to-end  encryption , making it unsuitable for commercially or politically sensitive meetings, are much trickier to solve"," added ms o'reilly.  perpetrators of video-call hijackings can often be hard to identify and track down, due to the quick nature of the attacks.  such an attack occurred on 30 april during a video conference to mark the end of sexual assault awareness month.  according to the mercury news, a hacker posted a video depicting child abuse, and forced the meeting to end.  the community-organised event in san francisco had been intended to allow victims of sexual assault to share their stories. a spokesman for the district attorney said they were aware of the matter and were looking into it.  “we are horrified about what occurred during one of our partner’s town hall events promoting sexual assault awareness month," he said.  "the intrusion further emphasises the importance of programs that combat and prevent sexual violence, including the prosecution of those who exploit children." a spokesman for zoom added that the platform was looking into the incident to "ensure appropriate action is taken".  a drugs boss who ran a multi-million pound enterprise in the uk has been jailed after detectives hacked into his  encryption  messaging accounts.   james duckworth, 42, used the handle "atomicmantis" on messaging service encrochat, merseyside police said. officers found images of heroin and cocaine, cash including a £385,000 stash in his home, and a ledger detailing £5m in payments. duckworth, of kirkby, was sentenced to 16 years and six months. he pleaded guilty to conspiracy to supply cocaine and heroin and conceal and acquire criminal property. liverpool crown court heard duckworth was arrested in kirkby on 3 november after detectives found evidence of a plan to import drugs from costa rica on his  encryption  encrochat phone. during a search of his home detectives seized designer watches, an anti-bugging device and a cash counting machine. police said duckworth, who gave the court a new address of hamlett crescent in st helens, was the first person in merseyside to be sentenced as part of a europe-wide effort to "crack" the encrochat service. there were 800 arrests across the continent last year after messages were intercepted and decoded by law enforcement officers. the national crime agency said the communications system - which has now been taken down - was used by criminals to trade weapons as well as drugs. det insp lee wilkinson said: "duckworth, and many others like him, thought that by using  encryption  devices they could evade justice, "he is the first but certainly won't be the last in merseyside to face a significant period of time in jail." why not follow bbc north west on facebook, twitter and instagram? you can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk google is hoping to end low quality video calls by deploying artificial intelligence to "fill in" audio gaps caused by bad connections.  waveneteq works by using a library of speech data to realistically continue short segments of conversations.  the ai is trained to produce mostly syllable sounds, and can fill gaps of up to 120 milliseconds.   it comes as the use of video calls has become increasingly important during the corornavirus crisis. uk government defends pm's use of zoom coronavirus: racist 'zoombombing' at virtual synagogue when making a call over the internet, data is split into small chunks called packets.  a poor connection can mean these packets reach the other party in the wrong order and at the wrong time, or cause them to be lost entirely. this can result in a significant decline in call quality.    google says 99% of calls made using its duo app experience some form of audio-related issue. of these calls, 20% lose more than 3% of their total audio, while 10% lose almost a tenth.  wavenethq works by specifically creating speech data to fill the gaps made by drops in audio. the ai has been trained using the voices of 100 individuals in 48 languages to enable it to learn the general characteristics of a human voice, regardless of dialect.  douglas crawford, cyber security researcher at proprivacy, says that duo's end-to-end  encryption  should help alleviate any concerns about data-sharing.  "as calls on the platform are secured using end-to-end  encryption , outsourcing ai-processing of missing packets in order to reduce audio jitters was simply not an option for developers," he told the bbc. "google solved this by performing all the processing on your device so that no data is ever transmitted to a third party.  the system is currently available on google's pixel 4 smartphone - the company says it plans to expand to more android devices later this year.  in 2018, google divided critics when it unveiled artificial intelligence software that books appointments over the phone on behalf of users by making realistic voice-based calls. however, the feature is currently only available in the us.  zoom has said it will release an improved version of its hugely popular video conferencing app this week. it comes after issues with the company's data security and privacy measures have come under intense scrutiny. the firm said zoom 5.0 will include upgraded  encryption  features to help protect data and fend off so-called "zoombombing". the platform is now being used by hundreds of millions of people for work and leisure, as lockdowns are imposed around the world. "we will earn our customers’ trust and deliver them happiness with our unwavering focus on providing the most secure platform,” zoom's chief executive eric yuan said in a statement. zoom has been criticised for a range of privacy issues, including sending users' device data to facebook, wrongly claiming the app had end-to-end  encryption , and allowing meeting hosts to track attendees. new york couples can now tie the knot over zoomzoom under increased scrutiny as popularity soarszoom is in everyone's living room - how safe is it? one of the app’s most high-profile issues has been “zoombombing” incidents, where uninvited guests crash meetings. this has led to several companies, schools and governments stopping the use of the platform. in the uk there has been debate about whether the government should be using zoom for cabinet meetings, after prime minister boris johnson tweeted a picture which included the id number of the latest meeting. it has also been reported that elon musk has banned the use of zoom for spacex meetings over security concerns. nasa, which is one of space x's biggest customers, also prevents employees from using it. meanwhile, singapore suspended the use of video-conferencing tool zoom by its teachers, after a "very serious incident" during a home-based lesson. singapore's ministry of education has since announced that teaching over zoom was now resuming, with enhanced security measures.   earlier this month zoom said it would pause the development of any new features to concentrate on safety and privacy issues. mr yuan apologised for "falling short" on security issues and promised to address concerns, saying that the use of zoom had soared in ways he could never have foreseen prior to the coronavirus pandemic. that came as daily user numbers have soared to 300 million from 10 million in less than three months. at the same time new york's attorney general has written to the firm raising concerns over its ability to cope with the rise in users. the letter from the office of new york attorney general letitia james asked zoom whether it had reviewed its security measures since its popularity surged. it also pointed out that in the past the app had been slow to address issues. in response to a request from the bbc for comment, a company spokesperson said: "zoom takes its users' privacy, security, and trust extremely seriously." a uk-based haulier shipped drugs for gangs across europe from his warrington living room in lockdown.  thomas maher, originally from ireland, has been sentenced at liverpool crown court to more than 14 years in jail after pleading guilty to drugs and money-laundering charges.  he made thousands of pounds a week, using an  encryption  encrochat phone to fix the movement of drugs and money.  he is the first major crime boss jailed using messages obtained when french police cracked the encrochat network. the phones were considered mandatory for high-end organised crime, and more than a thousand suspects have been arrested on the strength of the evidence their messages contain.  hundreds arrested as crime chat network cracked encryption  mobile cracked to convict drug dealer maher, 39, used the encrochat handles "satirical" and "snacker" as he did deals with organised crime networks in the uk, ireland, denmark, the netherlands, spain, turkey and bulgaria.   the national crime agency says he was "hugely influential" among europe's drug cartels.  sentencing him, judge aubrey qc said maher was "a high-ranking facilitator... a go-between for criminal networks needing to transport their drugs between holland and ireland".   passing a sentence of 14 years and eight months, the judge told maher: "you were an extremely important cog in the wheel of a sophisticated network." maher would arrange for lorries to move massive loads of drugs hidden alongside legitimate cargoes such as fruit or wine in one direction and then to bring cash in the other direction.  police found out about his operation after he was arrested in connection with the deaths of 39 vietnamese migrants while they were being transported to the uk in october 2019. he had previously owned the trailer in which they were found.   the nca put him under surveillance in an attempt to identify the scale of his criminal activities. however, the cracking of the encrochat network by french intelligence and the gendarmerie provided the national crime agency with thousands of his  encryption  messages.  they were able to watch, almost in real time, as he did deals with crime bosses around europe.  martin clark, from the nca, said he posed as an "honest haulier", but was in fact "very much a professional facilitator and he's done it all remotely sitting in his living room". "he's never personally been anywhere near any of it." in fact, the nca said he had been scrupulous about social distancing during the pandemic while communicating via encrochat with dozens of criminals.  the evidence the agency has uncovered shines a new light on the way in which a smuggling network operates.  maher would be contacted by clients wanting to move hundreds of kilos of drugs.  the messages were written in criminal slang. he would discuss deals involving shipments of "tops" (top shelf drugs such as cocaine), or "colo" (the purest form from colombia).  heroin, which he deemed a more downmarket drug, was known as "bottoms".  shipments might come from "the flat" (the netherlands) and the lorry returned with "paper" (cash).  officers working on encrochat cases are having to develop skills in understanding the slang suspects are using in their messages.  in this message thomas maher (satirical) is telling an alleged co-conspirator that they're not doing too badly despite the lockdown. helpfully for police he sets out the network of drug transportation routes he is currently operating:  "taxi ways are working out ok at the minute with this fella from flat to ours and belgium to ours am other that's two - and plus a driver with [redacted] for poly's sun to flat and we still have [redacted] turk to flat and and his men [redacted] to here where i am. once we get this travel ban lifted m8 we be on the pigs bk that alone is a lot of taxi plus we have the receiver here from asia so m8 we have a lot more than others... that's why i'm not stressing yet the police translation reads: "our hgv drug courier business is working out ok at the moment. someone is bringing shipments from holland and belgium to the uk. there's a driver for ecstasy from spain to holland, and we still have turkey to holland, and [redacted] is bringing shipments to the uk. once the travel ban is lifted we will be doing rather well. that alone is a lot of shipments plus we have someone bringing drugs in from asia.  so, we have a lot more than other gangs... that's why i'm not stressing yet.  however, like many users of the encrochat network, maher believed his messages could not be read, so he didn't bother trying to communicate in code. crucial evidence was obtained from pictures on his phone. his drivers would photograph the shipments to prove they had been picked up.  they would sometimes use a "token" during the handover.  this involved showing a particular euro bank note, with digits previously agreed as evidence of identity.  when maher was moving drugs he would earn around £3,500 each time. for money, transported for laundering in consignments of 300,000 euros at a time, he would "skim" 1% of the total as his payment he was "always showing £50 notes in the pub", martin clark said, and people were suspicious that he was a criminal. maher lived in a "fairly modest" cheshire home, but police surveillance spotted luxury cars including a range rover, porsche cayenne, mercedes gls and corvette parked on the drive.  when they raided his house they found evidence he had spent hundreds of thousands of pounds on rolex and hublot watches.   he had taken holidays in dubai, mexico and new york where he liked to buy pricey modern art, including a map of the world created from bullets.  us attorney general william barr has accused apple of providing no “substantive assistance” in unlocking two phones used by a cadet who carried out a mass shooting at a us air base last month.three sailors were killed and eight wounded in the 6 december attack.apple has reportedly refused to unlock the phones, saying it would undermine their own  encryption  software.twenty-one members of the saudi military are being expelled from the us after they were found to have had jihadist material and indecent images of children in their possession.none are accused of aiding the killer.  targeted-threat s are a class of  malware  destined for one specific organization or industry.  a type of crimeware, these threats are of particular concern because they are designed to capture sensitive information.   targeted-threat s may include threats delivered via smtp e-mail, port attacks, zero day attack vulnerability exploits or  phishing  messages.  government organisations are the most targeted sector.[1]  financial industries are the second most targeted sector, most likely because cybercriminals desire to profit from the confidential, sensitive information the financial industry it infrastructure houses.[2] similarly, online brokerage accounts have also been targeted by such attacks.[3]
 the impact of  targeted-threat s can be far-reaching.  in addition to regulatory sanctions imposed by hipaa, sarbanes-oxley, the gramm-leach-bliley act and other laws, they can lead to the loss of revenue, focus and corporate momentum.  they not only expose sensitive customer data, but damage corporate reputations and incur potential lawsuits.[4]
 in contrast to a widespread spam attack, which are widely noticed, because  targeted-threat s are only sent to a limited number of organizations, these crimeware threats tend to not be reported and thus elude  malware  scanners.[5]
 
 an  advanced-persistent-threat  (apt) is a stealthy threat actor, typically a nation state or state-sponsored group, which gains unauthorized access to a computer network and remains undetected for an extended period.[1][2] in recent times, the term may also refer to non-state-sponsored groups conducting large-scale targeted intrusions for specific goals.[3]
 such threat actors' motivations are typically political or economic. every major business sector has recorded instances of cyberattacks by advanced actors with specific goals, whether to steal, spy, or disrupt. these targeted sectors include government, defense, financial services, legal services, industrial, telecoms, consumer goods and many more.[4][5][6] some groups utilize traditional espionage vectors, including social engineering, human intelligence and infiltration to gain access to a physical location to enable network attacks. the purpose of these attacks is to install custom  malware  ( malware ).[7]
 the median "dwell-time", the time an advanced-persistent-threat  attack goes undetected, differs widely between regions. fireeye reported the mean dwell-time for 2018 in the americas as 71 days, emea as 177 days, and apac as 204 days.[4] such a long dwell-time allows attackers a significant amount of time to go through the attack cycle, propagate, and achieve their objective.
 definitions of precisely what an advanced-persistent-threat  is can vary, but can be summarized by their named requirements below:
 warnings against targeted, socially-engineered emails dropping  spyware s to exfiltrate sensitive information were published by uk and us cert organisations in 2005. this method was used throughout the early 1990s and does not in itself constitute an advanced-persistent-threat . the term " advanced-persistent-threat " has been cited as originating from the united states air force in 2006[11] with colonel greg rattray cited as the individual who coined the term.[12]
 the stuxnet computer worm, which targeted the computer hardware of iran's nuclear program, is one example of an advanced-persistent-threat  attack. in this case, the iranian government might consider the stuxnet creators to be an  advanced-persistent-threat .[citation needed][13]
 within the computer security community, and increasingly within the media, the term is almost always used in reference to a long-term pattern of sophisticated computer network exploitation aimed at governments, companies, and political activists, and by extension, also to ascribe the a, p and t attributes to the groups behind these attacks.[14]  advanced-persistent-threat  (apt) as a term may be shifting focus to computer-based hacking due to the rising number of occurrences. pc world reported an 81 percent increase from 2010 to 2011 of particularly advanced targeted computer attacks.[15]
 actors in many countries have used cyberspace as a means to gather intelligence on individuals and groups of individuals of interest.[16][17][18] the united states cyber command is tasked with coordinating the us military's offensive and defensive cyber operations.[19]
 numerous sources have alleged that some advanced-persistent-threat  groups are affiliated with, or are agents of, governments of sovereign states.[20][21][22]
businesses holding a large quantity of personally identifiable information are at high risk of being targeted by  advanced-persistent-threat s, including:[23]
 a bell canada study provided deep research into the anatomy of advanced-persistent-threat s and uncovered widespread presence in canadian government and critical infrastructure. attribution was established to chinese and russian actors.[26]
 actors behind  advanced-persistent-threat s create a growing and changing risk to organizations' financial assets, intellectual property, and reputation[27] by following a continuous process or kill chain:
 the global landscape of advanced-persistent-threat 's from all sources is sometimes referred to in the singular as "the" advanced-persistent-threat , as are references to the actor behind a specific incident or series of incidents, but the definition of advanced-persistent-threat  includes both actor and method.[28]
 in 2013, mandiant presented results of their research on alleged chinese attacks using advanced-persistent-threat  method between 2004 and 2013[29] that followed similar lifecycle:
 in incidents analysed by mandiant, the average period over which the attackers controlled the victim's network was one year, with longest – almost five years.[29] the infiltrations were allegedly performed by shanghai-based unit 61398 of people's liberation army. chinese officials have denied any involvement in these attacks.[30]
 previous reports from secdev had previously discovered and implicated chinese actors.[31]
 there are tens of millions of  malware  variations,[32] which makes it extremely challenging to protect organizations from advanced-persistent-threat . while advanced-persistent-threat  activities are stealthy and hard to detect, the command and control network traffic associated with advanced-persistent-threat  can be detected at the network layer level with sophisticated methods. deep log analyses and log correlation from various sources is of limited usefulness in detecting advanced-persistent-threat  activities. it is challenging to separate noises from legitimate traffic. traditional security technology and methods have been ineffective in detecting or mitigating advanced-persistent-threat s.[33] active cyber defense has yielded greater efficacy in detecting and prosecuting advanced-persistent-threat s (find, fix, finish) when applying cyber threat intelligence to hunt and adversary pursuit activities.[34][35]
 according to security researcher timo steffens "the advanced-persistent-threat  landscape in china is run in a 'whole country' approach, leveraging skills from universities, individual, and private and public sectors."[36]
  phishing  is the fraudulent attempt to obtain sensitive information or data, such as usernames, passwords, credit card numbers, or other sensitive details by impersonating oneself as a trustworthy entity in a digital communication.[1][2] typically carried out by email spoofing,[3] instant messaging,[4] and text messaging,  phishing  often directs users to enter personal information at a fake website which matches the look and feel of the legitimate site.[5] as of 2020,  phishing  is by far the most common attack performed by cyber-criminals, with the fbi's internet crime complaint centre recording over twice as many incidents of  phishing  than any other type of computer crime.[6]
 the first recorded use of the term " phishing " was in the cracking toolkit aohell created by koceilah rekouche in 1995,[7] however it is possible that the term was used before this in a print edition of the hacker magazine 2600.[8]  the word is a leetspeak variant of fishing (ph is a common replacement for f [9]), probably influenced by phreaking,[10] and alludes to the use of increasingly sophisticated lures to "fish" for users' sensitive information.[7]
 attempts to prevent or mitigate the impact of  phishing  incidents include legislation, user training, public awareness, and technical security measures.[11]
 most  phishing  messages are delivered by email, and are not personalized or targeted to a specific individual or company–this is termed "bulk"  phishing .[12] the content of a bulk  phishing  message varies widely depending on the goal of the attacker–common targets for impersonation include banks and financial services, email and cloud productivity providers, and streaming services.[13] attackers may use the credentials obtained to directly steal money from a victim, although compromised accounts are often used instead as a jumping-off point to perform other attacks, such as the theft of proprietary information, the installation of  malware , or the spear  phishing  of other people within the target's organization.[7] compromised streaming service accounts are usually sold directly to consumers on darknet markets.[14]
 spear  phishing  involves an attacker directly targeting a specific organization or person with tailored  phishing  emails.[15] in contrast to bulk  phishing , spear  phishing  attackers often gather and use personal information about their target to increase their probability of success of the attack.[16][17][18][19] spear  phishing  typically targets executives or those that work in financial departments that have access to the organization's sensitive financial data and services. a 2019 study showed that accountancy and audit firms are frequent targets for spear  phishing  owing to their employees' access to information that could be valuable to criminals. [20]
 threat group-4127 (fancy bear) used spear  phishing  tactics to target email accounts linked to hillary clinton's 2016 presidential campaign. they attacked more than 1,800 google accounts and implemented the accounts-google.com domain to threaten targeted users.[21][22]
  phishing  refers to spear  phishing  attacks directed specifically at senior executives and other high-profile targets.[23] the content will be likely crafted to be of interest to the person or role targeted - such as a subpoena or customer complaint.[24]
 ceo fraud is effectively the opposite of  phishing ; it involves the crafting of spoofed emails purportedly from senior executives with the intention of getting other employees at an organization to perform a specific action, usually the wiring of money to an offshore account.[25] while ceo fraud has a reasonably low success rate, criminals can gain very large sums of money from the few attempts that do succeed. there have been multiple instances of organizations losing tens of millions of dollars to such attacks.[26]
 clone  phishing  is a type of  phishing  attack whereby a legitimate, and previously delivered email containing an attachment or link has had its content and recipient address(es) taken and used to create an almost identical or cloned email. the attachment or link within the email is replaced with a malicious version and then sent from an email address spoofed to appear to come from the original sender. it may claim to be a resend of the original or an updated version to the original. typically this requires either the sender or recipient to have been previously hacked for the malicious third party to obtain the legitimate email.[27][28]
 voice  phishing , or  phishing ,[29] is the use of telephony (often voice over ip telephony) to conduct  phishing  attacks. attackers will dial a large quantity of telephone numbers and play automated recordings - often made using text to speech synthesizers - that make false claims of fraudulent activity on the victim's bank accounts or credit cards. the calling phone number will be spoofed to show the real number of the bank or institution impersonated. the victim is then directed to call a number controlled by the attackers, which will either automatically prompt them to enter sensitive information in order to "resolve" the supposed fraud, or connect them to a live person who will attempt to use social engineering to obtain information.[29] voice  phishing  capitalizes on the lower awareness among the general public of techniques such as caller id spoofing and automated dialing, compared to the equivalents for email  phishing , and thereby the inherent trust that many people have in voice telephony.[30]
 sms  phishing [31] or  phishing [32] is conceptually similar to email  phishing , except attackers use cell phone text messages to deliver the 'bait'.[33]  phishing  attacks typically invite the user to click a link, call a phone number, or contact an email address provided by the attacker via sms message. the victim is then invited to provide their private data; often, credentials to other websites or services. furthermore, due to the nature of mobile browsers, urls may not be fully displayed; this may make it more difficult to identify an illegitimate logon page.[34] as the mobile phone market is now saturated with smartphones which all have fast internet connectivity, a malicious link sent via sms can yield the same result as it would if sent via email.  phishing  messages may come from telephone numbers that are in a strange or unexpected format.[35]
 most types of  phishing  use some form of technical deception designed to make a link in an email appear to belong to the organization the attackers are impersonating.[36] misspelled urls or the use of subdomains are common tricks used by phishers. in the following example url, http://www.yourbank.example.com/, it can appear to the untrained eye as though the url will take you to the example section of the yourbank website; actually this url points to the "yourbank" (i.e.  phishing ) section of the example website. another common trick is to make the displayed text for a link suggest a reliable destination, when the link actually goes to the phishers' site. many desktop email clients and web browsers will show a link's target url in the status bar while hovering the mouse over it. this behavior, however, may in some circumstances be overridden by the phisher.[37] equivalent mobile apps generally do not have this preview feature.
 internationalized domain names (idns) can be exploited via idn spoofing[38] or homograph attacks,[39] to create web addresses visually identical to a legitimate site, that lead instead to malicious version. phishers have taken advantage of a similar risk, using open url redirectors on the websites of trusted organizations to disguise malicious urls with a trusted domain.[40][41][42] even digital certificates do not solve this problem because it is quite possible for a phisher to purchase a valid certificate and subsequently change content to spoof a genuine website, or, to host the phish site without ssl at all.[43]
 phishers have sometimes used images instead of text to make it harder for anti- phishing  filters to detect the text commonly used in  phishing  emails.[44] in response, more sophisticated anti- phishing  filters are able to recover hidden text in images using optical character recognition (ocr).[45]
 most types of  phishing  involve some kind of social engineering, in which users are psychologically manipulated into performing an action such as clicking a link, opening an attachment, or divulging confidential information. in addition to the obvious impersonation of a trusted entity, most  phishing  involves the creation of a sense of urgency - attackers claim that accounts will be shut down or seized unless the victim takes an action.[46]
 an alternative technique to impersonation-based  phishing  is the use of fake news articles designed to provoke outrage, causing the victim to click a link without properly considering where it could lead. once on the attacker's website, victims can be presented with imitation "virus" notifications or redirected to pages that attempt to exploit web browser vulnerabilities to install  malware .[47]
 a  phishing  technique was described in detail in a paper and presentation delivered to the 1987 international hp users group, interex.[48]
 the term " phishing " is said to have been coined by the well known spammer and hacker in the mid-90s, khan c smith.[49] the first recorded mention of the term is found in the hacking tool aohell (according to its creator), which included a function for attempting to steal the passwords or financial details of america online users.[50][51]
  phishing  on aol was closely associated with the warez community that exchanged unlicensed software and the black hat hacking scene that perpetrated credit card fraud and other online crimes. aol enforcement would detect words used in aol chat rooms to suspend the accounts of individuals involved in counterfeiting software and trading stolen accounts. the term was used because "<><" is the single most common tag of html that was found in all chat transcripts naturally, and as such could not be detected or filtered by aol staff. the symbol <>< was replaced for any wording that referred to stolen credit cards, accounts, or illegal activity. since the symbol looked like a fish, and due to the popularity of phreaking it was adapted as " phishing ". aohell, released in early 1995, was a program designed to hack aol users by allowing the attacker to pose as an aol staff member, and send an instant message to a potential victim, asking him to reveal his password.[52] in order to lure the victim into giving up sensitive information, the message might include imperatives such as "verify your account" or "confirm billing information".
 once the victim had revealed the password, the attacker could access and use the victim's account for fraudulent purposes. both  phishing  and warezing on aol generally required custom-written programs, such as aohell.  phishing  became so prevalent on aol that they added a line on all instant messages stating: "no one working at aol will ask for your password or billing information". a user using both an aim account and an aol account from an isp simultaneously could phish aol members with relative impunity as internet aim accounts could be used by non-aol internet members and could not be actioned (i.e., reported to aol tos department for disciplinary action).[53][tone]. in late 1995, aol crackers resorted to  phishing  for legitimate accounts after aol brought in measures in late 1995 to prevent using fake, algorithmically generated credit card numbers to open accounts.[54] eventually, aol's policy enforcement forced copyright infringement off aol servers, and aol promptly deactivate accounts involved in  phishing , often before the victims could respond. the shutting down of the warez scene on aol caused most phishers to leave the service.[55]
 "apwg  phishing  attack trends reports". retrieved may 5, 2019.
 there are anti- phishing  websites which publish exact messages that have been recently circulating the internet, such as fraudwatch international and millersmiles. such sites often provide specific details about the particular messages.[121][122]
 as recently as 2007, the adoption of anti- phishing  strategies by businesses needing to protect personal and financial information was low.[123] now there are several different techniques to combat  phishing , including legislation and technology created specifically to protect against  phishing . these techniques include steps that can be taken by individuals, as well as by organizations. phone, web site, and email  phishing  can now be reported to authorities, as described below.
 people can be trained to recognize  phishing  attempts, and to deal with them through a variety of approaches. such education can be effective, especially where training emphasizes conceptual knowledge[124] and provides direct feedback.[125][126]
 many organizations run regular simulated  phishing  campaigns targeting their staff to measure the effectiveness of their training.
 people can take steps to avoid  phishing  attempts by slightly modifying their browsing habits.[127] when contacted about an account needing to be "verified" (or any other topic used by phishers), it is a sensible precaution to contact the company from which the email apparently originates to check that the email is legitimate. alternatively, the address that the individual knows is the company's genuine website can be typed into the address bar of the browser, rather than trusting any hyperlinks in the suspected  phishing  message.[128]
 nearly all legitimate e-mail messages from companies to their customers contain an item of information that is not readily available to phishers. some companies, for example paypal, always address their customers by their username in emails, so if an email addresses the recipient in a generic fashion ("dear paypal customer") it is likely to be an attempt at  phishing .[129] furthermore, paypal offers various methods to determine spoof emails and advises users to forward suspicious emails to their spoof@paypal.com domain to investigate and warn other customers. however it is unsafe to assume that the presence of personal information alone guarantees that a message is legitimate,[130] and some studies have shown that the presence of personal information does not significantly affect the success rate of  phishing  attacks;[131] which suggests that most people do not pay attention to such details.
 emails from banks and credit card companies often include partial account numbers. however, recent research[132] has shown that the public do not typically distinguish between the first few digits and the last few digits of an account number—a significant problem since the first few digits are often the same for all clients of a financial institution.
 the anti- phishing  working group produces regular report on trends in  phishing  attacks.[133]
 google posted a video demonstrating how to identify and protect yourself from  phishing  scams.[134]
 a wide range of technical approaches are available to prevent  phishing  attacks reaching users or to prevent them from successfully capturing sensitive information.
 specialized spam filters can reduce the number of  phishing  emails that reach their addressees' inboxes. these filters use a number of techniques including machine learning[135] and natural language processing approaches to classify  phishing  emails,[136][137] and reject email with forged addresses.[3]
 another popular approach to fighting  phishing  is to maintain a list of known  phishing  sites and to check websites against the list. one such service  is the safe browsing service.[138] web browsers such as google chrome, internet explorer 7, mozilla firefox 2.0, safari 3.2, and opera all contain this type of anti- phishing  measure.[139][140][141][142][143] firefox 2 used google anti- phishing  software. opera 9.1 uses live blacklists from phishtank, cyscon and geotrust, as well as live whitelists from geotrust. some implementations of this approach send the visited urls to a central service to be checked, which has raised concerns about privacy.[144] according to a report by mozilla in late 2006, firefox 2 was found to be more effective than internet explorer 7 at detecting fraudulent sites in a study by an independent software testing company.[145]
 an approach introduced in mid-2006 involves switching to a special dns service that filters out known  phishing  domains: this will work with any browser,[146] and is similar in principle to using a hosts file to block web adverts.
 to mitigate the problem of  phishing  sites impersonating a victim site by embedding its images (such as logos), several site owners have altered the images to send a message to the visitor that a site may be fraudulent. the image may be moved to a new filename and the original permanently replaced, or a server can detect that the image was not requested as part of normal browsing, and instead send a warning image.[147][148]
 the bank of america website[149][150] is one of several that asks users to select a personal image (marketed as sitekey) and displays this user-selected image with any forms that request a password. users of the bank's online services are instructed to enter a password only when they see the image they selected. however, several studies suggest that few users refrain from entering their passwords when images are absent.[151][152] in addition, this feature (like other forms of two-factor authentication) is susceptible to other attacks, such as those suffered by scandinavian bank nordea in late 2005,[153] and citibank in 2006.[154]
 a similar system, in which an automatically generated "identity cue" consisting of a colored word within a colored box is displayed to each website user, is in use at other financial institutions.[155]
 security skins[156][157] are a related technique that involves overlaying a user-selected image onto the login form as a visual cue that the form is legitimate. unlike the website-based image schemes, however, the image itself is shared only between the user and the browser, and not between the user and the website. the scheme also relies on a mutual authentication protocol, which makes it less vulnerable to attacks that affect user-only authentication schemes.
 still another technique relies on a dynamic grid of images that is different for each login attempt. the user must identify the pictures that fit their pre-chosen categories (such as dogs, cars and flowers). only after they have correctly identified the pictures that fit their categories are they allowed to enter their alphanumeric password to complete the login. unlike the static images used on the bank of america website, a dynamic image-based authentication method creates a one-time passcode for the login, requires active participation from the user, and is very difficult for a  phishing  website to correctly replicate because it would need to display a different grid of randomly generated images that includes the user's secret categories.[158]
 several companies offer banks and other organizations likely to suffer from  phishing  scams round-the-clock services to monitor, analyze and assist in shutting down  phishing  websites.[159] automated detection of  phishing  content is still below accepted levels for direct action, with content-based analysis reaching between 80 and 90% of success[160] so most of the tools include manual steps to certify the detection and authorize the response.[161] individuals can contribute by reporting  phishing  to both volunteer and industry groups,[162] such as cyscon or phishtank.[163]  phishing  web pages and emails can be reported to google.[164][165]
 solutions have also emerged using the mobile phone[166] (smartphone) as a second channel for verification and authorization of banking transactions.
 organizations can implement two factor or multi-factor authentication (mfa), which requires a user to use at least 2 factors when logging in. (for example, a user must both present a smart card and a password). this mitigates some risk, in the event of a successful  phishing  attack, the stolen password on its own cannot be reused to further breach the protected system. however, there are several attack methods which can defeat many of the typical systems.[167] mfa schemes such as webauthn address this issue by design.
 organizations that prioritize security over convenience can require users of its computers to use an email client that redacts urls from email messages, thus making it impossible for the reader of the email to click on a link, or even copy a url. while this may result in an inconvenience, it does almost completely eliminate email  phishing  attacks.
 an article in forbes in august 2014 argues that the reason  phishing  problems persist even after a decade of anti- phishing  technologies being sold is that  phishing  is "a technological medium to exploit human weaknesses" and that technology cannot fully compensate for human weaknesses.[168]
 on january 26, 2004, the u.s. federal trade commission filed the first lawsuit against a suspected phisher. the defendant, a californian teenager, allegedly created a webpage designed to look like the america online website, and used it to steal credit card information.[169] other countries have followed this lead by tracing and arresting phishers. a  phishing  kingpin, valdir paulo de almeida, was arrested in brazil for leading one of the largest  phishing  crime rings, which in two years stole between us$18 million and us$37 million.[170] uk authorities jailed two men in june 2005 for their role in a  phishing  scam,[171] in a case connected to the u.s. secret service operation firewall, which targeted notorious "carder" websites.[172] in 2006 eight people were arrested by japanese police on suspicion of  phishing  fraud by creating bogus yahoo japan web sites, netting themselves ¥100 million (us$870,000).[173] the arrests continued in 2006 with the fbi operation cardkeeper detaining a gang of sixteen in the u.s. and europe.[174]
 in the united states, senator patrick leahy introduced the anti- phishing  act of 2005 in congress on march 1, 2005. this bill, if it had been enacted into law, would have subjected criminals who created fake web sites and sent bogus emails in order to defraud consumers to fines of up to us$250,000 and prison terms of up to five years.[175]
the uk strengthened its legal arsenal against  phishing  with the fraud act 2006,[176] which introduces a general offence of fraud that can carry up to a ten-year prison sentence, and prohibits the development or possession of  phishing  kits with intent to commit fraud.[177]
 companies have also joined the effort to crack down on  phishing . on march 31, 2005, microsoft filed 117 federal lawsuits in the u.s. district court for the western district of washington. the lawsuits accuse "john doe" defendants of obtaining passwords and confidential information. march 2005 also saw a partnership between microsoft and the australian government teaching law enforcement officials how to combat various cyber crimes, including  phishing .[178] microsoft announced a planned further 100 lawsuits outside the u.s. in march 2006,[179] followed by the commencement, as of november 2006, of 129 lawsuits mixing criminal and civil actions.[180] aol reinforced its efforts against  phishing [181] in early 2006 with three lawsuits[182] seeking a total of us$18 million under the 2005 amendments to the virginia computer crimes act,[183][184] and earthlink has joined in by helping to identify six men subsequently charged with  phishing  fraud in connecticut.[185]
 in january 2007, jeffrey brett goodin of california became the first defendant convicted by a jury under the provisions of the can-spam act of 2003. he was found guilty of sending thousands of emails to america online users, while posing as aol's billing department, which prompted customers to submit personal and credit card information. facing a possible 101 years in prison for the can-spam violation and ten other counts including wire fraud, the unauthorized use of credit cards, and the misuse of aol's trademark, he was sentenced to serve 70 months. goodin had been in custody since failing to appear for an earlier court hearing and began serving his prison term immediately.[186][187][188][189]
 in computing, a  dos-attack  attack ( dos-attack ) is a cyber-attack in which the perpetrator seeks to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users by temporarily or indefinitely disrupting services of a host connected to the internet.  dos-attack  is typically accomplished by flooding the targeted machine or resource with superfluous requests in an attempt to overload systems and prevent some or all legitimate requests from being fulfilled.[1]
 in a distributed  dos-attack  attack (d dos-attack ), the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from many different sources. this effectively makes it impossible to stop the attack simply by blocking a single source.
 a dos-attack or d dos-attack  is analogous to a group of people crowding the entry door of a shop, making it hard for legitimate customers to enter, thus disrupting trade.
 criminal perpetrators of  dos-attack s often target sites or services hosted on high-profile web servers such as banks or credit card payment gateways. revenge, blackmail[2][3][4] and activism[5] can motivate these attacks.
 panix, the third-oldest isp in the world, was the target of what is thought to be the first  dos-attack . on september 6, 1996, panix was subject to a syn flood attack which brought down its services for several days while hardware vendors, notably cisco, figured out a proper defense.[6]
 another early demonstration of  dos-attack  was made by khan c. smith in 1997 during a def con event, disrupting internet access to the las vegas strip for over an hour. the release of sample code during the event led to the online attack of sprint, earthlink, e-trade, and other major corporations in the year to follow.[7]
 on march 5, 2018, an unnamed customer of the us-based service provider arbor networks fell victim to the largest  dos-attack  to that date, reaching a peak of about 1.7 terabits per second.[8] the previous record had been set a few days earlier, on march 1, 2018, when github was hit by an attack of 1.35 terabits per second.[9] in february 2020, amazon web services experienced an attack with a peak volume of 2.3 terabits per second.[10][11]
 during the hong kong anti-extradition protests in june 2019, the messaging app telegram was subject to a d dos-attack , aimed at preventing protesters from using it to coordinate movements. the founders of telegram have stated that this attack appears to be that of a "state sized actor" via ip addresses originating in china.[12]
 on september 6 and 7, 2019, wikipedia was taken down by a d dos-attack  in germany and some parts of europe. social media users, while waiting for the wikipedia recovery, created a "hashtag", #wikipediadown, on twitter in an effort to draw public attention.[13][5]
  dos-attack  attacks are characterized by an explicit attempt by attackers to prevent legitimate use of a service. there are two general forms of  dos-attack s: those that crash services and those that flood services. the most serious attacks are distributed.[14]
 a distributed  dos-attack  ( dos-attack ) attack occurs when multiple systems flood the bandwidth or resources of a targeted system, usually one or more web servers.[14] a d dos-attack  uses more than one unique ip address or machines, often from thousands of hosts infected with  malware .[15][16] a distributed  dos-attack  attack typically involves more than around 3–5 nodes on different networks; fewer nodes may qualify as a  dos-attack  but is not a d dos-attack .[17][18]
 multiple machines can generate more attack traffic than one machine, multiple attack machines are harder to turn off than one attack machine, and that the behavior of each attack machine can be stealthier, making it harder to track and shut down. since the incoming traffic flooding the victim originates from different sources, it may be impossible to stop the attack simply by using ingress filtering. it also makes it difficult to distinguish legitimate user traffic from attack traffic when spread across multiple points of origin. as an alternative or augmentation of a  dos-attack , attacks may involve forging of ip sender addresses (ip address spoofing) further complicating identifying and defeating the attack. these attacker advantages cause challenges for defense mechanisms. for example, merely purchasing more incoming bandwidth than the current volume of the attack might not help, because the attacker might be able to simply add more attack machines.
 the scale of d dos-attack s has continued to rise over recent years, by 2016 exceeding a terabit per second.[19][20] some common examples of d dos-attack s are udp flooding, syn flooding and dns amplification.[21][22]
 an application layer d dos-attack  (sometimes referred to as layer 7 d dos-attack ) is a form of d dos-attack  where attackers target application-layer processes.[23][17] the attack over-exercises specific functions or features of a website with the intention to disable those functions or features. this application-layer attack is different from an entire network attack, and is often used against financial institutions to distract it and security personnel from security breaches.[24] in 2013, application-layer d dos-attack s represented 20% of all d dos-attack s.[25] according to research by akamai technologies, there have been "51 percent more application layer attacks" from q4 2013 to q4 2014 and "16 percent more" from q3 2014 to q4 2014.[26] in november 2017; junade ali, a computer scientist at cloudflare noted that whilst network-level attacks continue to be of high capacity, they are occurring less frequently. ali further notes that although network-level attacks are becoming less frequent, data from cloudflare demonstrates that application-layer attacks are still showing no sign of slowing down.[27]
 the osi model (iso/iec 7498-1) is a conceptual model that characterizes and standardizes the internal functions of a communication system by partitioning it into abstraction layers. the model is a product of the open systems interconnection project at the international organization for standardization (iso). the model groups similar communication functions into one of seven logical layers. a layer serves the layer above it and is served by the layer below it. for example, a layer that provides error-free communications across a network provides the communications path needed by applications above it, while it calls the next lower layer to send and receive packets that traverse that path.
 in the osi model, the definition of its application layer is narrower in scope than is often implemented. the osi model defines the application layer as being the user interface. the osi application layer is responsible for displaying data and images to the user in a human-recognizable format and to interface with the presentation layer below it. in an implementation, the application and presentation layers are frequently combined.
 an application layer d dos-attack  is done mainly for specific targeted purposes, including disrupting transactions and access to databases. it requires fewer resources than network layer attacks but often accompanies them.[28] an attack may be disguised to look like legitimate traffic, except it targets specific application packets or functions. the attack on the application layer can disrupt services such as the retrieval of information or search functions on a website.[25]
 an advanced persistent dos-attack (a dos-attack ) is associated with an  advanced-persistent-threat  and requires specialised  dos-attack  mitigation.[29] these attacks can persist for weeks; the longest continuous period noted so far lasted 38 days. this attack involved approximately 50+ petabits (50,000+ terabits) of malicious traffic.[30]
 attackers in this scenario may tactically switch between several targets to create a diversion to evade defensive  dos-attack  countermeasures but all the while eventually concentrating the main thrust of the attack onto a single victim. in this scenario, attackers with continuous access to several very powerful network resources are capable of sustaining a prolonged campaign generating enormous levels of un-amplified  dos-attack  traffic.
 ap dos-attack s are characterised by:
 some vendors provide so-called "booter" or "stresser" services, which have simple web-based front ends, and accept payment over the web. marketed and promoted as stress-testing tools, they can be used to perform unauthorized  dos-attack  attacks, and allow technically unsophisticated attackers access to sophisticated attack tools.[32] usually powered by a  malicious-bot , the traffic produced by a consumer stresser can range anywhere from 5-50 gbit/s, which can, in most cases, deny the average home user internet access.[33]
 the united states computer emergency readiness team (us-cert) has identified symptoms of a  dos-attack  attack to include:[34]
 the simplest  dos-attack  relies primarily on brute force, flooding the target with an overwhelming flux of packets, oversaturating its connection bandwidth or depleting the target's system resources. bandwidth-saturating floods rely on the attacker's ability to generate the overwhelming flux of packets. a common way of achieving this today is via distributed  dos-attack , employing a  malicious-bot .
 in cases such as mydoom and slowloris the tools are embedded in  malware  and launch their attacks without the knowledge of the system owner. stacheldraht is a classic example of a  dos-attack  tool. it uses a layered structure where the attacker uses a client program to connect to handlers which are compromised systems that issue commands to the zombie agents which in turn facilitate the d dos-attack . agents are compromised via the handlers by the attacker using automated routines to exploit vulnerabilities in programs that accept remote connections running on the targeted remote hosts. each handler can control up to a thousand agents.[35]
 in other cases a machine may become part of a d dos-attack  with the owner's consent, for example, in operation payback organized by the group anonymous. the low orbit ion cannon has typically been used in this way. along with high orbit ion cannon a wide variety of  dos-attack  tools are available today, including paid and free versions, with different features available. there is an underground market for these in hacker related forums and irc channels.
 application-layer attacks employ dos-causing exploits and can cause server-running software to fill the disk space or consume all available memory or cpu time. attacks may use specific packet types or connection requests to saturate finite resources by, for example, occupying the maximum number of open connections or filling the victim's disk space with logs. an attacker with shell-level access to a victim's computer may slow it until it is unusable or crash it by using a fork bomb. another kind of application-level  dos-attack  is xdos (or xml dos) which can be controlled by modern web application firewalls (wafs).
 another target of d dos-attack s may be to produce added costs for the application operator, when the latter uses resources based on cloud computing. in this case normally application-used resources are tied to a needed quality of service (qos) level (e.g. responses should be less than 200 ms) and this rule is usually linked to automated software (e.g. amazon cloudwatch[36]) to raise more virtual resources from the provider in order to meet the defined qos levels for the increased requests. the main incentive behind such attacks may be to drive the application owner to raise the elasticity levels in order to handle the increased application traffic, in order to cause financial losses or force them to become less competitive.
 a banana attack is another particular type of dos. it involves redirecting outgoing messages from the client back onto the client, preventing outside access, as well as flooding the client with the sent packets. a land attack is of this type.
 pulsing zombies are compromised computers that are directed to launch intermittent and short-lived floodings of victim websites with the intent of merely slowing it rather than crashing it. this type of attack, referred to as degradation-of-service, can be more difficult to detect and can disrupt and hamper connection to websites for prolonged periods of time, potentially causing more overall disruption than a  dos-attack  attack.[37][38] exposure of degradation-of-service attacks is complicated further by the matter of discerning whether the server is really being attacked or is experiencing higher than normal legitimate traffic loads.[39]
  malware  can carry d dos-attack  mechanisms; one of the better-known examples of this was mydoom. its dos-attack mechanism was triggered on a specific date and time. this type of  dos-attack  involved hardcoding the target ip address prior to releasing the  malware  and no further interaction was necessary to launch the attack.
 a system may also be compromised with a  spyware  containing a zombie agent. attackers can also break into systems using automated tools that exploit flaws in programs that listen for connections from remote hosts. this scenario primarily concerns systems acting as servers on the web. stacheldraht is a classic example of a  dos-attack  tool. it uses a layered structure where the attacker uses a client program to connect to handlers, which are compromised systems that issue commands to the zombie agents, which in turn facilitate the d dos-attack . agents are compromised via the handlers by the attacker. each handler can control up to a thousand agents.[35] in some cases a machine may become part of a d dos-attack  with the owner's consent, for example, in operation payback, organized by the group anonymous. these attacks can use different types of internet packets such as: tcp, udp, icmp etc.
 these collections of compromised systems are known as  malicious-bot s.  dos-attack  tools like stacheldraht still use classic  dos-attack  methods centered on ip spoofing and amplification like smurf attacks and fraggle attacks (types of bandwidth consumption attacks). syn floods (a resource starvation attack) may also be used. newer tools can use dns servers for dos-attack purposes. unlike mydoom's  dos-attack  mechanism,  malicious-bot s can be turned against any ip address. script kiddies use them to deny the availability of well known websites to legitimate users.[40] more sophisticated attackers use  dos-attack  tools for the purposes of extortion – including against their business rivals.[41]
 simple attacks such as syn floods may appear with a wide range of source ip addresses, giving the appearance of a well-distributed dos. these flood attacks do not require completion of the tcp three-way handshake and attempt to exhaust the destination syn queue or the server bandwidth. because the source ip addresses can be trivially spoofed, an attack could come from a limited set of sources, or may even originate from a single host. stack enhancements such as syn cookies may be effective mitigation against syn queue flooding but do not address bandwidth exhaustion.
 if an attacker mounts an attack from a single host it would be classified as a  dos-attack . in fact, any attack against availability would be classed as a  dos-attack  attack. on the other hand, if an attacker uses many systems to simultaneously launch attacks against a remote host, this would be classified as a d dos-attack .
 it has been reported that there are new attacks from internet of things (iot) devices which have been involved in  dos-attack  attacks.
[42]
in one noted attack that was made peaked at around 20,000 requests per second which came from around 900 cctv cameras.
[43]
 uk's gchq has tools built for  dos-attack , named predators face and rolling thunder.[44]
 in 2015,  dos-attack   malicious-bot s such as dd4bc grew in prominence, taking aim at financial institutions.[45] cyber-extortionists typically begin with a low-level attack and a warning that a larger attack will be carried out if a ransom is not paid in bitcoin.[46] security experts recommend targeted websites to not pay the ransom. the attackers tend to get into an extended extortion scheme once they recognize that the target is ready to pay.[47]
 first discovered in 2009, the http slow post attack sends a complete, legitimate http post header, which includes a 'content-length' field to specify the size of the message body to follow. however, the attacker then proceeds to send the actual message body at an extremely slow rate (e.g. 1 byte/110 seconds). due to the entire message being correct and complete, the target server will attempt to obey the 'content-length' field in the header, and wait for the entire body of the message to be transmitted, which can take a very long time. the attacker establishes hundreds or even thousands of such connections until all resources for incoming connections on the server (the victim) are used up, hence making any further (including legitimate) connections impossible until all data has been sent. it is notable that unlike many other  dos-attack  or d dos-attack s, which try to subdue the server by overloading its network or cpu, an http slow post attack targets the logical resources of the victim, which means the victim would still have enough network bandwidth and processing power to operate.[48] further combined with the fact that apache will, by default, accept requests up to 2gb in size, this attack can be particularly powerful. http slow post attacks are difficult to differentiate from legitimate connections and are therefore able to bypass some protection systems. owasp, an open source web application security project, released a tool to test the security of servers against this type of attacks.[49]
 a challenge collapsar (cc) attack is an attack that standard http requests are sent to a targeted web server frequently, in which the uniform resource identifiers (uris) require complicated time-consuming algorithms or database operations, in order to exhaust the resources of the targeted web server.[50][51][52]
 in 2004, a chinese hacker nicknamed kiki invented a hacking tool to send these kinds of requests to attack a nsfocus firewall named "collapsar", and thus the hacking tool was known as "challenge collapsar", or cc for short. consequently, this type of attack got the name "cc attack".[53]
 a smurf attack relies on misconfigured network devices that allow packets to be sent to all computer hosts on a particular network via the broadcast address of the network, rather than a specific machine. the attacker will send large numbers of ip packets with the source address faked to appear to be the address of the victim. most devices on a network will, by default, respond to this by sending a reply to the source ip address. if the number of machines on the network that receive and respond to these packets is very large, the victim's computer will be flooded with traffic. this overloads the victim computer and can even make it unusable during such attack.[54]
 ping flood is based on sending the victim an overwhelming number of ping packets, usually using the "ping" command from unix-like hosts (the -t flag on windows systems is much less capable of overwhelming a target, also the -l (size) flag does not allow sent packet size greater than 65500 in windows). it is very simple to launch, the primary requirement being access to greater bandwidth than the victim.
 ping of death is based on sending the victim a malformed ping packet, which will lead to a system crash on a vulnerable system.
 the blacknurse attack is an example of an attack taking advantage of the required destination port unreachable icmp packets.
 a nuke is an old fashioned  dos-attack  attack against computer networks consisting of fragmented or otherwise invalid icmp packets sent to the target, achieved by using a modified ping utility to repeatedly send this corrupt data, thus slowing down the affected computer until it comes to a complete stop.[55]
 a specific example of a nuke attack that gained some prominence is the winnuke, which exploited the vulnerability in the netbios handler in windows 95. a string of out-of-band data was sent to tcp port 139 of the victim's machine, causing it to lock up and display a blue screen of death.[55]
 attackers have found a way to exploit a number of bugs in peer-to-peer servers to initiate d dos-attack s. the most aggressive of these peer-to-peer-d dos-attack s exploits dc++. with peer-to-peer there is no  malicious-bot  and the attacker does not have to communicate with the clients it subverts. instead, the attacker acts as a "puppet master," instructing clients of large peer-to-peer file sharing hubs to disconnect from their peer-to-peer network and to connect to the victim's website instead.[56][57][58]
 permanent  dos-attack  ( dos-attack ), also known loosely as phlashing,[59] is an attack that damages a system so badly that it requires replacement or reinstallation of hardware.[60] unlike the distributed  dos-attack  attack, a p dos-attack  exploits security flaws which allow remote administration on the management interfaces of the victim's hardware, such as routers, printers, or other networking hardware. the attacker uses these vulnerabilities to replace a device's firmware with a modified, corrupt, or defective firmware image—a process which when done legitimately is known as flashing. this therefore "bricks" the device, rendering it unusable for its original purpose until it can be repaired or replaced.
 the  dos-attack  is a pure hardware  targeted-threat  which can be much faster and requires fewer resources than using a  malicious-bot  or a root/vserver in a d dos-attack . because of these features, and the potential and high probability of security exploits on network enabled embedded devices (needs), this technique has come to the attention of numerous hacking communities. brickerbot, a piece of  malware  that targeted iot devices, used p dos-attack s to disable its targets.[61]
 phlashdance is a tool created by rich smith (an employee of hewlett-packard's systems security lab) used to detect and demonstrate  dos-attack  vulnerabilities at the 2008 eusecwest applied security conference in london.[62]
 a distributed  dos-attack  attack may involve sending forged requests of some type to a very large number of computers that will reply to the requests. using internet protocol address spoofing, the source address is set to that of the targeted victim, which means all the replies will go to (and flood) the target. (this reflected attack form is sometimes called a "drdos".[63])
 icmp echo request attacks (smurf attack) can be considered one form of reflected attack, as the flooding hosts send echo requests to the broadcast addresses of mis-configured networks, thereby enticing hosts to send echo reply packets to the victim. some early  dos-attack  programs implemented a distributed form of this attack.
 amplification attacks are used to magnify the bandwidth that is sent to a victim. this is typically done through publicly accessible dns servers that are used to cause congestion on the target system using dns response traffic. many services can be exploited to act as reflectors, some harder to block than others.[64] us-cert have observed that different services may result in different amplification factors, as tabulated below:[65]
 dns amplification attacks involve a new mechanism that increased the amplification effect, using a much larger list of dns servers than seen earlier. the process typically involves an attacker sending a dns name look up request to a public dns server, spoofing the source ip address of the targeted victim. the attacker tries to request as much information as possible, thus amplifying the dns response that is sent to the targeted victim. since the size of the request is significantly smaller than the response, the attacker is easily able to increase the amount of traffic directed at the target.[70][71] snmp and ntp can also be exploited as reflector in an amplification attack.
 an example of an amplified d dos-attack  through the network time protocol (ntp) is through a command called monlist, which sends the details of the last 600 hosts that have requested the time from the ntp server back to the requester. a small request to this time server can be sent using a spoofed source ip address of some victim, which results in a response 556.9 times the size of the request being sent to the victim. this becomes amplified when using  malicious-bot s that all send requests with the same spoofed ip source, which will result in a massive amount of data being sent back to the victim.
 it is very difficult to defend against these types of attacks because the response data is coming from legitimate servers. these attack requests are also sent through udp, which does not require a connection to the server. this means that the source ip is not verified when a request is received by the server. in order to bring awareness of these vulnerabilities, campaigns have been started that are dedicated to finding amplification vectors which has led to people fixing their resolvers or having the resolvers shut down completely.
 this attack works by using a worm to infect hundreds of thousands of iot devices across the internet. the worm propagates through networks and systems taking control of poorly protected iot devices such as thermostats, wi-fi enabled clocks and washing machines.[72] when the device becomes enslaved usually the owner or user will have no immediate indication. the iot device itself is not the direct target of the attack, it is used as a part of a larger attack.[73] these newly enslaved devices are called slaves or malicious-bot . once the hacker has acquired the desired number of malicious-bot , they instruct the malicious-bot  to try to contact an isp. in october 2016, a mirai  malicious-bot  attacked dyn which is the isp for sites such as twitter, netflix, etc.[72] as soon as this occurred, these websites were all unreachable for several hours. this type of attack is not physically damaging, but it will certainly be costly for any large internet companies that get attacked.
 rudy attack targets web applications by starvation of available sessions on the web server. much like slowloris, rudy keeps sessions at halt using never-ending post transmissions and sending an arbitrarily large content-length header value.
 manipulating maximum segment size and selective acknowledgement (sack) it may be used by a remote peer to cause a  dos-attack  by an integer overflow in the linux kernel, causing even a kernel panic.[74] jonathan looney discovered cve-2019-11477, cve-2019-11478, cve-2019-11479 on june 17, 2019.[75]
 the shrew attack is a  dos-attack  attack on the transmission control protocol where the attacker employs man-in-the-middle techniques. it uses short synchronized bursts of traffic to disrupt tcp connections on the same link, by exploiting a weakness in tcp's re-transmission timeout mechanism.[76]
 a slow read attack sends legitimate application layer requests, but reads responses very slowly, thus trying to exhaust the server's connection pool. it is achieved by advertising a very small number for the tcp receive window size, and at the same time emptying clients' tcp receive buffer slowly, which causes a very low data flow rate.
 
 a sophisticated low-bandwidth d dos-attack  is a form of dos-attack that uses less traffic and increases their effectiveness by aiming at a weak point in the victim's system design, i.e., the attacker sends traffic consisting of complicated requests to the system.[77] essentially, a sophisticated d dos-attack  is lower in cost due to its use of less traffic, is smaller in size making it more difficult to identify, and it has the ability to hurt systems which are protected by flow control mechanisms.[77][78]
 a syn flood occurs when a host sends a flood of tcp/syn packets, often with a forged sender address. each of these packets are handled like a connection request, causing the server to spawn a half-open connection, by sending back a tcp/syn-ack packet (acknowledge), and waiting for a packet in response from the sender address (response to the ack packet). however, because the sender address is forged, the response never comes. these half-open connections saturate the number of available connections the server can make, keeping it from responding to legitimate requests until after the attack ends.[79]
 a teardrop attack involves sending mangled ip fragments with overlapping, oversized payloads to the target machine. this can crash various operating systems because of a bug in their tcp/ip fragmentation re-assembly code.[80] windows 3.1x, windows 95 and windows nt operating systems, as well as versions of linux prior to versions 2.0.32 and 2.1.63 are vulnerable to this attack.
 (although in september 2009, a vulnerability in windows vista was referred to as a "teardrop attack", this targeted smb2 which is a higher layer than the tcp packets that teardrop used).[81][82]
 one of the fields in an ip header is the “fragment offset” field, indicating the starting position, or offset, of the data contained in a fragmented packet relative to the data in the original packet. if the sum of the offset and size of one fragmented packet differs from that of the next fragmented packet, the packets overlap. when this happens, a server vulnerable to teardrop attacks is unable to reassemble the packets - resulting in a  dos-attack  condition.
 voice over ip has made abusive origination of large numbers of telephone voice calls inexpensive and readily automated while permitting call origins to be misrepresented through caller id spoofing.
 according to the us federal bureau of investigation, telephony  dos-attack  (tdos) has appeared as part of various fraudulent schemes:
 telephony  dos-attack  can exist even without internet telephony. in the 2002 new hampshire senate election phone jamming scandal, telemarketers were used to flood political opponents with spurious calls to jam phone banks on election day. widespread publication of a number can also flood it with enough calls to render it unusable, as happened by accident in 1981 with multiple +1-area code-867-5309 subscribers inundated by hundreds of misdialed calls daily in response to the song 867-5309/jenny.
 tdos differs from other telephone harassment (such as prank calls and obscene phone calls) by the number of calls originated; by occupying lines continuously with repeated automated calls, the victim is prevented from making or receiving both routine and emergency telephone calls.
 related exploits include sms flooding attacks and black fax or fax loop transmission.
 it takes more router resources to drop a packet with a ttl value of 1 or less than it does to forward a packet with higher ttl value. when a packet is dropped due to ttl expiry, the router cpu must generate and send an icmp time exceeded response. generating many of these responses can overload the router's cpu.[85]
 this attack uses an existing vulnerability in universal plug and play (upnp) protocol to get around a considerable amount of the present defense methods and flood a target's network and servers. the attack is based on a dns amplification technique, but the attack mechanism is a upnp router which forwards requests from one outer source to another disregarding upnp behavior rules. using the upnp router returns the data on an unexpected udp port from a bogus ip address, making it harder to take simple action to shut down the traffic flood. according to the imperva researchers, the most effective way to stop this attack is for companies to lock down upnp routers.[86][87]
 in 2014 it was discovered that ssdp was being used in d dos-attack s known as an "ssdp reflection attack with amplification". many devices, including some residential routers, have a vulnerability in the upnp software that allows an attacker to get replies from port number 1900 to a destination address of their choice. with a  malicious-bot  of thousands of devices, the attackers can generate sufficient packet rates and occupy bandwidth to saturate links, causing the  dos-attack s.[88][89][90] the network company cloudflare has described this attack as the "stupidly simple  dos-attack  protocol".[91]
 arp spoofing is a common  dos-attack  that involves a vulnerability in the arp protocol that allows an attacker to associate their mac address to the ip address of another computer or gateway (like a router), causing traffic intended for the original authentic ip to be re-routed to that of the attacker, causing  dos-attack .
 defensive responses to  dos-attack  attacks typically involve the use of a combination of attack detection, traffic classification and response tools, aiming to block traffic that they identify as illegitimate and allow traffic that they identify as legitimate.[92] a list of prevention and response tools is provided below:
 application front-end hardware is intelligent hardware placed on the network before traffic reaches the servers. it can be used on networks in conjunction with routers and switches. application front end hardware analyzes data packets as they enter the system, and then identifies them as priority, regular, or dangerous. there are more than 25 bandwidth management vendors.
 approaches to d dos-attack s against cloud-based applications may be based on an application layer analysis, indicating whether incoming bulk traffic is legitimate and thus triggering elasticity decisions without the economical implications of a d dos-attack .[93] these approaches mainly rely on an identified path of value inside the application and monitor the progress of requests on this path, through markers called key completion indicators.[94]
 in essence, these technique are statistical methods of assessing the behavior of incoming requests to detect if something unusual or abnormal is going on.
 an analogy is to a bricks-and-mortar department store where customers spend, on average, a known percentage of their time on different activities such as picking up items and examining them, putting them back, filling a basket, waiting to pay, paying, and leaving. these high-level activities correspond to the key completion indicators in a service or site, and once normal behavior is determined, abnormal behavior can be identified. if a mob of customers arrived in store and spent all their time picking up items and putting them back, but never made any purchases, this could be flagged as unusual behavior.
 the department store can attempt to adjust to periods of high activity by bringing in a reserve of employees at short notice. but if it did this routinely, were a mob to start showing up but never buying anything, this could ruin the store with the extra employee costs. soon the store would identify the mob activity and scale back the number of employees, recognising that the mob provides no profit and should not be served. while this may make it more difficult for legitimate customers to get served during the mob's presence, it saves the store from total ruin.
 in the case of elastic cloud services where a huge and abnormal additional workload may incur significant charges from the cloud service provider, this technique can be used to scale back or even stop the expansion of server availability to protect from economic loss.
 with blackhole routing, all the traffic to the attacked dns or ip address is sent to a "black hole" (null interface or a non-existent server). to be more efficient and avoid affecting network connectivity, it can be managed by the isp.[95]
 a dns sinkhole routes traffic to a valid ip address which analyzes traffic and rejects bad packets. sinkholing is not efficient for most severe attacks.
 intrusion prevention systems (ips) are effective if the attacks have signatures associated with them. however, the trend among the attacks is to have legitimate content but bad intent. intrusion-prevention systems which work on content recognition cannot block behavior-based  dos-attack s.[29]
 an asic based ips may detect and block  dos-attack  attacks because they have the processing power and the granularity to analyze the attacks and act like a circuit breaker in an automated way.[29]
 a rate-based ips (rbips) must analyze traffic granularly and continuously monitor the traffic pattern and determine if there is traffic anomaly. it must let the legitimate traffic flow while blocking the  dos-attack  traffic.[96]
 more focused on the problem than ips, a dos-attack defense system (dds) can block connection-based  dos-attack s and those with legitimate content but bad intent. a dds can also address both protocol attacks (such as teardrop and ping of death) and rate-based attacks (such as icmp floods and syn floods). dds have a purpose-built system that can easily identify and obstruct  dos-attack  attacks at a greater speed than a software that is based system.[97]
 in the case of a simple attack, a firewall could have a simple rule added to deny all incoming traffic from the attackers, based on protocols, ports or the originating ip addresses.
 more complex attacks will however be hard to block with simple rules: for example, if there is an ongoing attack on port 80 (web service), it is not possible to drop all incoming traffic on this port because doing so will prevent the server from serving legitimate traffic.[98] additionally, firewalls may be too deep in the network hierarchy, with routers being adversely affected before the traffic gets to the firewall. also, many security tools still do not support ipv6 or may not be configured properly, so the firewalls often might get bypassed during the attacks.[99]
 similar to switches, routers have some rate-limiting and acl capability. they, too, are manually set. most routers can be easily overwhelmed under a  dos-attack . cisco ios has optional features that can reduce the impact of flooding.[100]
 most switches have some rate-limiting and acl capability. some switches provide automatic and/or system-wide rate limiting, traffic shaping, delayed binding (tcp splicing), deep packet inspection and bogon filtering (bogus ip filtering) to detect and remediate  dos-attack s through automatic rate filtering and wan link failover and balancing.[29][citation needed]
 these schemes will work as long as the  dos-attack s can be prevented by using them. for example, syn flood can be prevented using delayed binding or tcp splicing. similarly content based dos-attack may be prevented using deep packet inspection. attacks originating from dark addresses or going to dark addresses can be prevented using bogon filtering. automatic rate filtering can work as long as set rate-thresholds have been set correctly. wan-link failover will work as long as both links have dos/ dos-attack  prevention mechanism.[29][citation needed]
 all traffic is passed through a "cleaning center" or a "scrubbing center" via various methods such as proxies, tunnels, digital cross connects, or even direct circuits, which separates "bad" traffic ( dos-attack  and also other common internet attacks) and only sends good traffic beyond to the server. the provider needs central connectivity to the internet to manage this kind of service unless they happen to be located within the same facility as the "cleaning center" or "scrubbing center". d dos-attack s can overwhelm any type of hardware firewall, and passing malicious traffic through large and mature networks becomes more and more effective and economically sustainable against  dos-attack .[101]
 for example, in an ssdp reflection attack; a key mitigation is to block incoming udp traffic on port 1900 at the firewall.[102]
 an unintentional  dos-attack  can occur when a system ends up denied, not due to a deliberate attack by a single individual or group of individuals, but simply due to a sudden enormous spike in popularity. this can happen when an extremely popular website posts a prominent link to a second, less well-prepared site, for example, as part of a news story. the result is that a significant proportion of the primary site's regular users – potentially hundreds of thousands of people – click that link in the space of a few hours, having the same effect on the target website as a d dos-attack . a vi dos-attack  is the same, but specifically when the link was posted by a celebrity.
 when michael jackson died in 2009, websites such as google and twitter slowed down or even crashed.[103] many sites' servers thought the requests were from a computer-virus  or  spyware  trying to cause a  dos-attack  attack, warning users that their queries looked like "automated requests from a  computer-virus  or  spyware  application".[104]
 news sites and link sites – sites whose primary function is to provide links to interesting content elsewhere on the internet – are most likely to cause this phenomenon. the canonical example is the slashdot effect when receiving traffic from slashdot. it is also known as "the reddit hug of death" and "the digg effect".
 routers have also been known to create unintentional  dos-attack s, as both d-link and netgear routers have overloaded ntp servers by flooding ntp servers without respecting the restrictions of client types or geographical limitations.
 similar unintentional denials-of-service can also occur via other media, e.g. when a url is mentioned on television. if a server is being indexed by google or another search engine during peak periods of activity, or does not have a lot of available bandwidth while being indexed, it can also experience the effects of a  dos-attack .[29][failed verification][citation needed]
 legal action has been taken in at least one such case. in 2006, universal tube & rollform equipment corporation sued youtube: massive numbers of would-be youtube.com users accidentally typed the tube company's url, utube.com. as a result, the tube company ended up having to spend large amounts of money on upgrading their bandwidth.[105] the company appears to have taken advantage of the situation, with utube.com now containing ads for advertisement revenue.
 in march 2014, after malaysia airlines flight 370 went missing, digitalglobe launched a crowdsourcing service on which users could help search for the missing jet in satellite images. the response overwhelmed the company's servers.[106]
 an unintentional  dos-attack  may also result from a prescheduled event created by the website itself, as was the case of the census in australia in 2016.[107] this could be caused when a server provides some service at a specific time. this might be a university website setting the grades to be available where it will result in many more login requests at that time than any other.
 in computer network security, backscatter is a side-effect of a spoofed  dos-attack  attack. in this kind of attack, the attacker spoofs (or forges) the source address in ip packets sent to the victim. in general, the victim machine cannot distinguish between the spoofed packets and legitimate packets, so the victim responds to the spoofed packets as it normally would. these response packets are known as backscatter.[108]
 if the attacker is spoofing source addresses randomly, the backscatter response packets from the victim will be sent back to random destinations. this effect can be used by network telescopes as indirect evidence of such attacks.
 the term "backscatter analysis" refers to observing backscatter packets arriving at a statistically significant portion of the ip address space to determine characteristics of  dos-attack s and victims.
 many jurisdictions have laws under which  dos-attack  attacks are illegal.
 on january 7, 2013, anonymous posted a petition on the whitehouse.gov site asking that  dos-attack  be recognized as a legal form of protest similar to the occupy protests, the claim being that the similarity in purpose of both are same.[117]
 
  malware  (a portmanteau for  malware ) is any software intentionally designed to cause damage to a computer, server, client, or computer network[1][2] (by contrast, software that causes unintentional harm due to some deficiency is typically described as a software bug).[3] a wide variety of  malware  types exist, including  computer-virus es, worms,  spyware  horses,  ransomware ,  spyware ,  spyware , rogue software, wiper and scareware.  
 programs are also considered  malware  if they secretly act against the interests of the computer user. for example, at one point sony music compact discs silently installed a rootkit on purchasers' computers with the intention of preventing illicit copying, but which also reported on users' listening habits, and unintentionally created extra security vulnerabilities.[4]
 a range of antivirus software, firewalls and other strategies are used to help protect against the introduction of  malware , to help detect it if it is already present, and to recover from  malware -associated malicious activity and attacks.[5]
 many early infectious programs, including the first internet worm, were written as experiments or pranks.[6] today,  malware  is used by both black hat hackers and governments, to steal personal, financial, or business information.[7][8]
  malware  is sometimes used broadly against government or corporate websites to gather guarded information,[9] or to disrupt their operation in general. however,  malware  can be used against individuals to gain information such as personal identification numbers or details, bank or credit card numbers, and passwords.
 since the rise of widespread broadband internet access,  malware  has more frequently been designed for profit. since 2003, the majority of widespread computer-virus es and worms have been designed to take control of users' computers for illicit purposes.[10] infected "zombie computers" can be used to send email spam, to host contraband data such as child pornography,[11] or to engage in distributed  dos-attack  attacks as a form of extortion.[12]
 programs designed to monitor users' web browsing, display unsolicited advertisements, or redirect affiliate marketing revenues are called  spyware .  spyware  programs do not spread like computer-virus es; instead they are generally installed by exploiting security holes. they can also be hidden and packaged together with unrelated user-installed software.[13] the sony bmg rootkit was intended to prevent illicit copying; but also reported on users' listening habits, and unintentionally created extra security vulnerabilities.[4]
  ransomware  affects an infected computer system in some way, and demands payment to bring it back to its normal state. there are two variations of  ransomware , being crypto  ransomware  and locker  ransomware .[14] with the locker  ransomware  just locking down a computer system without  encryption  its contents. whereas the traditional  ransomware  is one that locks down a system and  encryption  its contents. for example, programs such as  ransomware  encryption files securely, and only decrypt them on payment of a substantial sum of money.[15]
 some  malware  is used to generate money by click fraud, making it appear that the computer user has clicked an advertising link on a site, generating a payment from the advertiser. it was estimated in 2012 that about 60 to 70% of all active  malware  used some kind of click fraud, and 22% of all ad-clicks were fraudulent.[16]
 in addition to criminal money-making,  malware  can be used for sabotage, often for political motives. stuxnet, for example, was designed to disrupt very specific industrial equipment. there have been politically motivated attacks which spread over and shut down large computer networks, including massive deletion of files and corruption of master boot records, described as "computer killing." such attacks were made on sony pictures entertainment (25 november 2014, using  malware  known as shamoon or w32.disttrack) and saudi aramco (august 2012).[17][18]
 the best-known types of  malware , computer-virus es and worms, are known for the manner in which they spread, rather than any specific types of behavior. a  computer-virus  is software that embeds itself in some other executable software (including the operating system itself) on the target system without the user's knowledge and consent and when it is run, the computer-virus  is spread to other executables. on the other hand, a worm is a stand-alone  malware  software that actively transmits itself over a network to infect other computers and can copy itself without infecting files. these definitions lead to the observation that a computer-virus  requires the user to run an infected software or operating system for the computer-virus  to spread, whereas a worm spreads itself.[19]
 these categories are not mutually exclusive, so  malware  may use multiple techniques.[20] this section only applies to  malware  designed to operate undetected, not sabotage and  ransomware .
 a  computer-virus  is software usually hidden within another seemingly innocuous program that can produce copies of itself and insert them into other programs or files, and that usually performs a harmful action (such as destroying data).[21]  an example of this is a pe infection, a technique, usually used to spread  malware , that inserts extra data or executable code into pe files.[22]
 'lock-screens', or screen lockers is a type of “cyber police”  ransomware  that blocks screens on windows or android devices with a false accusation in harvesting illegal content, trying to scare the victims into paying up a fee.[23]
jisut and slocker impact android devices more than other lock-screens, with jisut making up nearly 60 percent of all android  ransomware  detections.[24]
  encryption -based  ransomware , like the name suggests, is a type of  ransomware  then  encryption  all files on an infected machine. these types of  malware  then display a pop-up informing the user that their files have been  encryption  and that they must pay (usually in bitcoin) to recover them. some examples of  encryption -based  ransomware  are  ransomware  and  ransomware . [25]
 a  spyware  horse is a harmful program that misrepresents itself to masquerade as a regular, benign program or utility in order to persuade a victim to install it. a  spyware  horse usually carries a hidden destructive function that is activated when the application is started. the term is derived from the ancient greek story of the  spyware  horse used to invade the city of troy by stealth.[26][27][28][29][30]
  spyware  horses are generally spread by some form of social engineering, for example, where a user is duped into executing an e-mail attachment disguised to be unsuspicious, (e.g., a routine form to be filled in), or by drive-by download. although their payload can be anything, many modern forms act as a backdoor, contacting a controller (phoning home) which can then have unauthorized access to the affected computer, potentially installing additional software such as a keylogger to steal confidential information, cryptomining software or  spyware  to generate revenue to the operator of the  spyware .[31] while  spyware  horses and backdoors are not easily detectable by themselves, computers may appear to run slower, emit more heat or fan noise due to heavy processor or network usage, as may occur when cryptomining software is installed. cryptominers may limit resource usage and/or only run during idle times in an attempt to evade detection.
 unlike  computer-virus es and worms,  spyware  horses generally do not attempt to inject themselves into other files or otherwise propagate themselves.[32]
 in spring 2017 mac users were hit by the new version of proton remote access  spyware  (rat)[33] trained to extract password data from various sources, such as browser auto-fill data, the mac-os keychain, and password vaults.[34]
 once  malware  is installed on a system, it is essential that it stays concealed, to avoid detection. software packages known as rootkits allow this concealment, by modifying the host's operating system so that the  malware  is hidden from the user. rootkits can prevent a harmful process from being visible in the system's list of processes, or keep its files from being read.[35]
 some types of harmful software contain routines to evade identification and/or removal attempts, not merely to hide themselves. an early example of this behavior is recorded in the jargon file tale of a pair of programs infesting a xerox cp-v time sharing system:
 a backdoor is a method of bypassing normal authentication procedures, usually over a connection to a network such as the internet. once a system has been compromised, one or more backdoors may be installed in order to allow access in the future,[37] invisibly to the user.
 the idea has often been suggested that computer manufacturers preinstall backdoors on their systems to provide technical support for customers, but this has never been reliably verified. it was reported in 2014 that us government agencies had been diverting computers purchased by those considered "targets" to secret workshops where software or hardware permitting remote access by the agency was installed, considered to be among the most productive operations to obtain access to networks around the world.[38] backdoors may be installed by  spyware  horses, worms, implants, or other methods.[39][40]
 since the beginning of 2015, a sizable portion of  malware  has been utilizing a combination of many techniques designed to avoid detection and analysis.[41] from the more common, to the least common:
 an increasingly common technique (2015) is  spyware  that uses stolen certificates to disable anti- malware  and computer-virus  protection; technical remedies are available to deal with the  spyware .[45]
 nowadays, one of the most sophisticated and stealthy ways of evasion is to use information hiding techniques, namely stego malware . a survey on stego malware  was published by cabaj et al. in 2018.[46]
 another type of evasion technique is fileless  malware  or advanced volatile threats (avts). fileless  malware  does not require a file to operate. it runs within memory and utilizes existing system tools to carry out malicious acts. because there are no files on the system, there are no executable files for antivirus and forensic tools to analyze, making such  malware  nearly impossible to detect. the only way to detect fileless  malware  is to catch it operating in real time. recently these type attacks have become more frequent with a 432% increase in 2017 and makeup 35% of the attacks in 2018. such attacks are not easy to perform but are becoming more prevalent with the help of exploit-kits. [47][48]
 
  malware  exploits security defects (security bugs or vulnerabilities) in the design of the operating system, in applications (such as browsers, e.g. older versions of microsoft internet explorer supported by windows xp[49]), or in vulnerable versions of browser plugins such as adobe flash player, adobe acrobat or reader, or java se.[50][51] sometimes even installing new versions of such plugins does not automatically uninstall old versions. security advisories from plug-in providers announce security-related updates.[52] common vulnerabilities are assigned cve ids and listed in the us national vulnerability database. secunia psi[53] is an example of software, free for personal use, that will check a pc for vulnerable out-of-date software, and attempt to update it.
  malware  authors target bugs, or loopholes, to exploit. a common method is exploitation of a buffer overrun vulnerability, where software designed to store data in a specified region of memory does not prevent more data than the buffer can accommodate being supplied.  malware  may provide data that overflows the buffer, with malicious executable code or data after the end; when this payload is accessed it does what the attacker, not the legitimate software, determines.
 anti- malware  is a continuously growing threat to  malware  detection.[54] according to symantec’s 2018 internet security threat report (istr),  malware  variants number has got up to 669,947,865 in 2017, which is the double of  malware  variants in 2016.[54]
 early pcs had to be booted from floppy disks. when built-in hard drives became common, the operating system was normally started from them, but it was possible to boot from another boot device if available, such as a floppy disk, cd-rom, dvd-rom, usb flash drive or network. it was common to configure the computer to boot from one of these devices when available. normally none would be available; the user would intentionally insert, say, a cd into the optical drive to boot the computer in some special way, for example, to install an operating system. even without booting, computers can be configured to execute software on some media as soon as they become available, e.g. to autorun a cd or usb device when inserted.
  malware  distributors would trick the user into booting or running from an infected device or medium. for example, a computer-virus  could make an infected computer add autorunnable code to any usb stick plugged into it. anyone who then attached the stick to another computer set to autorun from usb would in turn become infected, and also pass on the infection in the same way.[55] more generally, any device that plugs into a usb port - even lights, fans, speakers, toys, or peripherals such as a digital microscope - can be used to spread  malware . devices can be infected during manufacturing or supply if quality control is inadequate.[55]
 this form of infection can largely be avoided by setting up computers by default to boot from the internal hard drive, if available, and not to autorun from devices.[55] intentional booting from another device is always possible by pressing certain keys during boot.
 older email software would automatically open html email containing potentially malicious javascript code. users may also execute disguised malicious email attachments. the 2018 data breach investigations report by verizon, cited by cso online, states that emails are the primary method of  malware  delivery, accounting for 92% of  malware  delivery around the world.[56][57]
 in computing, privilege refers to how much a user or program is allowed to modify a system. in poorly designed computer systems, both users and programs can be assigned more privileges than they should have, and  malware  can take advantage of this. the two ways that  malware  does this is through overprivileged users and overprivileged code.[citation needed]
 some systems allow all users to modify their internal structures, and such users today would be considered over-privileged users. this was the standard operating procedure for early microcomputer and home computer systems, where there was no distinction between an administrator or root, and a regular user of the system. in some systems, non-administrator users are over-privileged by design, in the sense that they are allowed to modify internal structures of the system. in some environments, users are over-privileged because they have been inappropriately granted administrator or equivalent status.[58]
 some systems allow code executed by a user to access all rights of that user, which is known as over-privileged code. this was also standard operating procedure for early microcomputer and home computer systems.  malware , running as over-privileged code, can use this privilege to subvert the system. almost all currently popular operating systems, and also many scripting applications allow code too many privileges, usually in the sense that when a user executes code, the system allows that code all rights of that user. this makes users vulnerable to  malware  in the form of e-mail attachments, which may or may not be disguised.[citation needed]
 as  malware  attacks become more frequent, attention has begun to shift from computer-virus es and  spyware  protection, to  malware  protection, and programs that have been specifically developed to combat  malware . (other preventive and recovery measures, such as backup and recovery methods, are mentioned in the  computer-virus  article).
reboot to restore software is also useful for mitigating  malware  by rolling back malicious alterations.
 a specific component of anti-virus and anti- malware  software, commonly referred to as an on-access or real-time scanner, hooks deep into the operating system's core or kernel and functions in a manner similar to how certain  malware  itself would attempt to operate, though with the user's informed permission for protecting the system. any time the operating system accesses a file, the on-access scanner checks if the file is a 'legitimate' file or not. if the file is identified as  malware  by the scanner, the access operation will be stopped, the file will be dealt with by the scanner in a pre-defined way (how the anti-virus program was configured during/post installation), and the user will be notified.[citation needed] this may have a considerable performance impact on the operating system, though the degree of impact is dependent on how well the scanner was programmed. the goal is to stop any operations the  malware  may attempt on the system before they occur, including activities which might exploit bugs or trigger unexpected operating system behavior.
 anti- malware  programs can combat  malware  in two ways:
 real-time protection from  malware  works identically to real-time antivirus protection: the software scans disk files at download time, and blocks the activity of components known to represent  malware . in some cases, it may also intercept attempts to install start-up items or to modify browser settings. because many  malware  components are installed as a result of browser exploits or user error, using security software (some of which are anti- malware , though many are not) to "sandbox" browsers (essentially isolate the browser from the computer and hence any  malware  induced change) can also be effective in helping to restrict any damage done.[61]
 examples of microsoft windows antivirus and anti- malware  software include the optional microsoft security essentials[62] (for windows xp, vista, and windows 7) for real-time protection, the windows  malware  removal tool[63] (now included with windows (security) updates on "patch tuesday", the second tuesday of each month), and windows defender (an optional download in the case of windows xp, incorporating mse functionality in the case of windows 8 and later).[64] additionally, several capable antivirus software programs are available for free download from the internet (usually restricted to non-commercial use).[65] tests found some free programs to be competitive with commercial ones.[65][66][67] microsoft's system file checker can be used to check for and repair corrupted system files.
 some computer-virus es disable system restore and other important windows tools such as task manager and command prompt. many such computer-virus es can be removed by rebooting the computer, entering windows safe mode with networking,[68] and then using system tools or microsoft safety scanner.[69]
 hardware implants can be of any type, so there can be no general way to detect them.
 as  malware  also harms the compromised websites (by breaking reputation, blacklisting in search engines, etc.), some websites offer vulnerability scanning.[70]
such scans check the website, detect  malware , may note outdated software, and may report known security issues.
 as a last resort, computers can be protected from  malware , and infected computers can be prevented from disseminating trusted information, by imposing an "air gap" (i.e. completely disconnecting them from all other networks). however,  malware  can still cross the air gap in some situations. stuxnet is an example of  malware  that is introduced to the target environment via a usb drive. 
 "airhopper",[71] "bitwhisper",[72] "gsmem" [73] and "fansmitter" [74] are four techniques introduced by researchers that can leak data from air-gapped computers using electromagnetic, thermal and acoustic emissions.
 grayware (sometimes spelled as greyware) is a term applied to unwanted applications or files that are not classified as  malware , but can worsen the performance of computers and may cause security risks.[75]
 it describes applications that behave in an annoying or undesirable manner, and yet are less serious or troublesome than  malware . grayware encompasses  spyware ,  spyware , fraudulent dialers, joke programs, remote access tools and other unwanted programs that may harm the performance of computers or cause inconvenience. the term came into use around 2004.[76]
 another term, potentially unwanted program (pup) or potentially unwanted application (pua),[77] refers to applications that would be considered unwanted despite often having been downloaded by the user, possibly after failing to read a download agreement. pups include  spyware ,  spyware , and fraudulent dialers. many security products classify unauthorised key generators as grayware, although they frequently carry true  malware  in addition to their ostensible purpose.
 software maker  malware bytes lists several criteria for classifying a program as a pup.[78] some types of  spyware  (using stolen certificates) turn off anti- malware  and computer-virus  protection; technical remedies are available.[45]
 before internet access became widespread, computer-virus es spread on personal computers by infecting executable programs or boot sectors of floppy disks. by inserting a copy of itself into the machine code instructions in these programs or boot sectors, a computer-virus  causes itself to be run whenever the program is run or the disk is booted. early  computer-virus es were written for the apple ii and macintosh, but they became more widespread with the dominance of the ibm pc and ms-dos system. the first ibm pc computer-virus  in the "wild" was a boot sector computer-virus  dubbed (c)brain,[79] created in 1986 by the farooq alvi brothers in pakistan.[80]
 the first worms, network-borne infectious programs, originated not on personal computers, but on multitasking unix systems. the first well-known worm was the internet worm of 1988, which infected sunos and vax bsd systems. unlike a computer-virus , this worm did not insert itself into other programs. instead, it exploited security holes (vulnerabilities) in network server programs and started itself running as a separate process.[81] this same behavior is used by today's worms as well.[82][83]
 with the rise of the microsoft windows platform in the 1990s, and the flexible macros of its applications, it became possible to write infectious code in the macro language of microsoft word and similar programs. these macro computer-virus es infect documents and templates rather than applications (executables), but rely on the fact that macros in a word document are a form of executable code.[84]
 the notion of a self-reproducing computer program can be traced back to initial theories about the operation of complex automata.[85] john von neumann showed that in theory a program could reproduce itself. this constituted a plausibility result in computability theory. fred cohen experimented with  computer-virus es and confirmed neumann's postulate and investigated other properties of  malware  such as detectability and self-obfuscation using rudimentary  encryption . his 1987 doctoral dissertation was on the subject of  computer-virus es.[86] the combination of cryptographic technology as part of the payload of the computer-virus , exploiting it for attack purposes was initialized and investigated from the mid 1990s, and includes initial  ransomware  and evasion ideas.[87]
 
 
 a  computer-virus [1] is a type of computer program that, when executed, replicates itself by modifying other computer programs and inserting its own code.[2][3] if this replication succeeds, the affected areas are then said to be "infected" with a  computer-virus .[4][5]
  computer-virus es generally require a host program.[2] the computer-virus  writes its own code into the host program. when the program runs, the written computer-virus  program is executed first, causing infection and damage. a computer worm does not need a host program, as it is an independent program or code chunk. therefore, it is not restricted by the host program, but can run independently and actively carry out attacks.[6][7]
  computer-virus es cause billions of dollars' worth of economic damage each year.[8]
 in 1989 the adapso software industry division published dealing with electronic vandalism,[9] in which they followed the risk of data loss by "the added risk of losing customer confidence."[10][11][12]
 in response, free, open-source anti-virus tools have been developed, and an industry of antivirus software has cropped up, selling or freely distributing computer-virus  protection to users of various operating systems.[13]
 computer-virus  writers use social engineering deceptions and exploit detailed knowledge of security vulnerabilities to initially infect systems and to spread the computer-virus . the vast majority of computer-virus es target systems running microsoft windows,[14][15][16] employing a variety of mechanisms to infect new hosts,[17] and often using complex anti-detection/stealth strategies to evade antivirus software.[18][19][20][21] motives for creating computer-virus es can include seeking profit (e.g., with  ransomware ), desire to send a political message, personal amusement, to demonstrate that a vulnerability exists in software, for sabotage and  dos-attack , or simply because they wish to explore cybersecurity issues, artificial life and evolutionary algorithms.[22]
 damage[8] is due to causing system failure, corrupting data, wasting computer resources, increasing maintenance costs or stealing personal information. even though no antivirus software can uncover all  computer-virus es (especially new ones), computer security researchers are actively searching for new ways to enable antivirus solutions to more effectively detect emerging computer-virus es, before they become widely distributed.[23]
 the term "virus" is also misused by extension to refer to other types of  malware . " malware " encompasses  computer-virus es along with many other forms of  malware , such as computer "worms",  ransomware ,  spyware ,  spyware ,  spyware  horses, keyloggers, rootkits, bootkits, malicious browser helper object (bhos), and other  malware . the majority of active  malware  threats are  spyware  horse programs or computer worms rather than  computer-virus es. the term  computer-virus , coined by fred cohen in 1985, is a misnomer.[24] computer-virus es often perform some type of harmful activity on infected host computers, such as acquisition of hard disk space or central processing unit (cpu) time, accessing and stealing private information (e.g., credit card numbers, debit card numbers, phone numbers, names, email addresses, passwords, bank information, house addresses, etc.), corrupting data, displaying political, humorous or threatening messages on the user's screen, spamming their e-mail contacts, logging their keystrokes, or even rendering the computer useless. however, not all computer-virus es carry a destructive "payload" and attempt to hide themselves—the defining characteristic of computer-virus es is that they are self-replicating computer programs that modify other software without user consent by injecting themselves into the said programs, similar to a biological computer-virus  which replicates within living cells.
 the first academic work on the theory of self-replicating computer programs[25] was done in 1949 by john von neumann who gave lectures at the university of illinois about the "theory and organization of complicated automata". the work of von neumann was later published as the "theory of self-reproducing automata". in his essay von neumann described how a computer program could be designed to reproduce itself.[26]  von neumann's design for a self-reproducing computer program is considered the world's first  computer-virus , and he is considered to be the theoretical "father" of computer virology.[27] in 1972, veith risak directly building on von neumann's work on self-replication, published his article "selbstreproduzierende automaten mit minimaler informationsübertragung" (self-reproducing automata with minimal information exchange).[28] the article describes a fully functional computer-virus  written in assembler programming language for a siemens 4004/35 computer system. in 1980 jürgen kraus wrote his diplom thesis "selbstreproduktion bei programmen" (self-reproduction of programs) at the university of dortmund.[29] in his work kraus postulated that computer programs can behave in a way similar to biological computer-virus es.
 the first known description of a self-reproducing program in fiction is in the 1970 short story the scarred man by gregory benford which describes a computer program called computer-virus  which, when installed on a computer with telephone modem dialing capability, randomly dials phone numbers until it hits a modem that is answered by another computer, and then attempts to program the answering computer with its own program, so that the second computer will also begin dialing random numbers, in search of yet another computer to program. the program rapidly spreads exponentially through susceptible computers and can only be countered by a second program called vaccine.[30]
 the idea was explored further in two 1972 novels, when harlie was one by david gerrold and the terminal man by michael crichton, and became a major theme of the 1975 novel the shockwave rider by john brunner.[31]
 the 1973 michael crichton sci-fi movie westworld made an early mention of the concept of a  computer-virus , being a central plot theme that causes androids to run amok.[32] alan oppenheimer's character summarizes the problem by stating that "...there's a clear pattern here which suggests an analogy to an infectious disease process, spreading from one...area to the next."  to which the replies are stated: "perhaps there are superficial similarities to disease" and, "i must confess i find it difficult to believe in a disease of machinery."[33]
 the creeper computer-virus  was first detected on arpanet, the forerunner of the internet, in the early 1970s.[34] creeper was an experimental self-replicating program written by bob thomas at bbn technologies in 1971.[35] creeper used the arpanet to infect dec pdp-10 computers running the tenex operating system.[36] creeper gained access via the arpanet and copied itself to the remote system where the message, "i'm the creeper, catch me if you can!" was displayed. the reaper program was created to delete creeper.[37]
 in 1982, a program called "elk cloner" was the first personal  computer-virus  to appear "in the wild"—that is, outside the single computer or computer lab where it was created.[38] written in 1981 by richard skrenta, a ninth grader at mount lebanon high school near pittsburgh, it attached itself to the apple dos-attack 3.3 operating system and spread via floppy disk.[38] on its 50th use the elk cloner computer-virus  would be activated, infecting the personal computer and displaying a short poem beginning "elk cloner: the program with a personality."
 in 1984 fred cohen from the university of southern california wrote his paper " computer-virus es – theory and experiments".[39] it was the first paper to explicitly call a self-reproducing program a "virus", a term introduced by cohen's mentor leonard adleman. in 1987, fred cohen published a demonstration that there is no algorithm that can perfectly detect all possible computer-virus es.[40] fred cohen's theoretical compression computer-virus [41] was an example of a computer-virus  which was not  malware  ( malware ), but was putatively benevolent (well-intentioned). however, antivirus professionals do not accept the concept of "benevolent computer-virus es", as any desired function can be implemented without involving a computer-virus  (automatic compression, for instance, is available under windows at the choice of the user). any computer-virus  will by definition make unauthorised changes to a computer, which is undesirable even if no damage is done or intended. the first page of dr solomon's computer-virus  encyclopaedia explains the undesirability of computer-virus es, even those that do nothing but reproduce.[42][5]
 an article that describes "useful computer-virus  functionalities" was published by j. b. gunn under the title "use of computer-virus  functions to provide a virtual apl interpreter under user control" in 1984.[43] the first ibm pc computer-virus  in the "wild" was a boot sector computer-virus  dubbed (c)brain,[44] created in 1986 by amjad farooq alvi and basit farooq alvi in lahore, pakistan, reportedly to deter unauthorized copying of the software they had written.[45] the first computer-virus  to specifically target microsoft windows, winvir was discovered in april 1992, two years after the release of windows 3.0.[46] the computer-virus  did not contain any windows api calls, instead relying on dos-attack interrupts. a few years later, in february 1996, australian hackers from the computer-virus -writing crew vlad created the bizatch computer-virus  (also known as "boza" computer-virus ), which was the first known computer-virus  to target windows 95. in late 1997 the  encryption , memory-resident stealth computer-virus  win32.cabanas was released—the first known computer-virus  that targeted windows nt (it was also able to infect windows 3.0 and windows 9x hosts).[47]
 even home computers were affected by computer-virus es. the first one to appear on the commodore amiga was a boot sector computer-virus  called sca computer-virus , which was detected in november 1987.[48]
 a viable  computer-virus  must contain a search routine, which locates new files or new disks that are worthwhile targets for infection. secondly, every  computer-virus  must contain a routine to copy itself into the program which the search routine locates.[49] the three main computer-virus  parts are:
 computer-virus  phases is the life cycle of the  computer-virus , described by using an analogy to biology. this life cycle can be divided into four phases:
  computer-virus es infect a variety of different subsystems on their host computers and software.[55] one manner of classifying computer-virus es is to analyze whether they reside in binary executables (such as .exe or .com files), data files (such as microsoft word documents or pdf files), or in the boot sector of the host's hard drive (or some combination of all of these).[56][57]
 a memory-resident computer-virus  (or simply "resident computer-virus ") installs itself as part of the operating system when executed, after which it remains in ram from the time the computer is booted up to when it is shut down. resident computer-virus es overwrite interrupt handling code or other functions, and when the operating system attempts to access the target file or disk sector, the computer-virus  code intercepts the request and redirects the control flow to the replication module, infecting the target. in contrast, a non-memory-resident computer-virus  (or "non-resident computer-virus "), when executed, scans the disk for targets, infects them, and then exits (i.e. it does not remain in memory after it is done executing).[58][59][60]
 many common applications, such as microsoft outlook and microsoft word, allow macro programs to be embedded in documents or emails, so that the programs may be run automatically when the document is opened. a macro computer-virus  (or "document computer-virus ") is a computer-virus  that is written in a macro language and embedded into these documents so that when users open the file, the computer-virus  code is executed, and can infect the user's computer. this is one of the reasons that it is dangerous to open unexpected or suspicious attachments in e-mails.[61][62] while not opening attachments in e-mails from unknown persons or organizations can help to reduce the likelihood of contracting a computer-virus , in some cases, the computer-virus  is designed so that the e-mail appears to be from a reputable organization (e.g., a major bank or credit card company).
 boot sector computer-virus es specifically target the boot sector and/or the master boot record[63]  (mbr) of the host's hard disk drive, solid-state drive, or removable storage media (flash drives, floppy disks, etc.).[56][64][65]
 the most common way of transmission of  computer-virus es in boot sector is physical media. when reading the vbr of the drive, the infected floppy disk or usb flash drive connected to the computer will transfer data, and then modify or replace the existing boot code. the next time a user tries to start the desktop, the computer-virus  will immediately load and run as part of the master boot record.[66]
 email computer-virus es are computer-virus es that intentionally, rather than accidentally, uses the email system to spread. while computer-virus  infected files may be accidentally sent as email attachments, email computer-virus es are aware of email system functions. they generally target a specific type of email system (microsoft outlook is the most commonly used), harvest email addresses from various sources, and may append copies of themselves to all email sent, or may generate email messages containing copies of themselves as attachments.[67]
 to avoid detection by users, some computer-virus es employ different kinds of deception. some old computer-virus es, especially on the dos-attack platform, make sure that the "last modified" date of a host file stays the same when the file is infected by the computer-virus . this approach does not fool antivirus software, however, especially those which maintain and date cyclic redundancy checks on file changes.[68] some computer-virus es can infect files without increasing their sizes or damaging the files. they accomplish this by overwriting unused areas of executable files. these are called cavity computer-virus es. for example, the cih computer-virus , or chernobyl computer-virus , infects portable executable files. because those files have many empty gaps, the computer-virus , which was 1 kb in length, did not add to the size of the file.[69] some computer-virus es try to avoid detection by killing the tasks associated with antivirus software before it can detect them (for example, conficker). in the 2010s, as computers and operating systems grow larger and more complex, old hiding techniques need to be updated or replaced. defending a computer against computer-virus es may demand that a file system migrate towards detailed and explicit permission for every kind of file access.[citation needed]
 while some kinds of antivirus software employ various techniques to counter stealth mechanisms, once the infection occurs any recourse to "clean" the system is unreliable.  in microsoft windows operating systems, the ntfs file system is proprietary. this leaves antivirus software a little alternative but to send a "read" request to windows files that handle such requests.  some computer-virus es trick antivirus software by intercepting its requests to the operating system.  a computer-virus  can hide by intercepting the request to read the infected file, handling the request itself, and returning an uninfected version of the file to the antivirus software.  the interception can occur by code injection of the actual operating system files that would handle the read request.  thus, an antivirus software attempting to detect the computer-virus  will either not be permitted to read the infected file, or, the "read" request will be served with the uninfected version of the same file.[70]
 the only reliable method to avoid "stealth" computer-virus es is to "reboot" from a medium that is known to be "clear".  security software can then be used to check the dormant operating system files.  most security software relies on computer-virus  signatures, or they employ heuristics.[71][72] security software may also use a database of file "hashes" for windows os files, so the security software can identify altered files, and request windows installation media to replace them with authentic versions. in older versions of windows, file cryptographic hash functions of windows os files stored in windows—to allow file integrity/authenticity to be checked—could be overwritten so that the system file checker would report that altered system files are authentic, so using file hashes to scan for altered files would not always guarantee finding an infection.[73]
 most modern antivirus programs try to find computer-virus -patterns inside ordinary programs by scanning them for so-called computer-virus  signatures.[74] unfortunately, the term is misleading, in that computer-virus es do not possess unique signatures in the way that human beings do. such a computer-virus  "signature" is merely a sequence of bytes that an antivirus program looks for because it is known to be part of the computer-virus . a better term would be "search strings". different antivirus programs will employ different search strings, and indeed different search methods, when identifying computer-virus es. if a computer-virus  scanner finds such a pattern in a file, it will perform other checks to make sure that it has found the computer-virus , and not merely a coincidental sequence in an innocent file, before it notifies the user that the file is infected. the user can then delete, or (in some cases) "clean" or "heal" the infected file. some computer-virus es employ techniques that make detection by means of signatures difficult but probably not impossible. these computer-virus es modify their code on each infection. that is, each infected file contains a different variant of the computer-virus .[citation needed]
 one method of evading signature detection is to use simple  encryption  to encipher (encode) the body of the computer-virus , leaving only the  encryption  module and a static cryptographic key in cleartext which does not change from one infection to the next.[75] in this case, the computer-virus  consists of a small decrypting module and an  encryption  copy of the computer-virus  code. if the computer-virus  is  encryption  with a different key for each infected file, the only part of the computer-virus  that remains constant is the decrypting module, which would (for example) be appended to the end. in this case, a computer-virus  scanner cannot directly detect the computer-virus  using signatures, but it can still detect the decrypting module, which still makes indirect detection of the computer-virus  possible. since these would be symmetric keys, stored on the infected host, it is entirely possible to decrypt the final computer-virus , but this is probably not required, since self-modifying code is such a rarity that finding some may be reason enough for computer-virus  scanners to at least "flag" the file as suspicious.[citation needed] an old but compact way will be the use of arithmetic operation like addition or subtraction and the use of logical conditions such as xoring,[76] where each byte in a computer-virus  is with a constant so that the exclusive-or operation had only to be repeated for decryption. it is suspicious for a code to modify itself, so the code to do the  encryption /decryption may be part of the signature in many computer-virus  definitions.[citation needed] a simpler older approach did not use a key, where the  encryption  consisted only of operations with no parameters, like incrementing and decrementing, bitwise rotation, arithmetic negation, and logical not.[76] some computer-virus es, called polymorphic computer-virus es, will employ a means of  encryption  inside an executable in which the computer-virus  is  encryption  under certain events, such as the computer-virus  scanner being disabled for updates or the computer being rebooted.[77] this is called cryptovirology.
 polymorphic code was the first technique that posed a serious threat to computer-virus  scanners. just like regular  encryption  computer-virus es, a polymorphic computer-virus  infects files with an  encryption  copy of itself, which is decoded by a decryption module. in the case of polymorphic computer-virus es, however, this decryption module is also modified on each infection. a well-written polymorphic computer-virus  therefore has no parts which remain identical between infections, making it very difficult to detect directly using "signatures".[78][79] antivirus software can detect it by decrypting the computer-virus es using an emulator, or by statistical pattern analysis of the  encryption  computer-virus  body. to enable polymorphic code, the computer-virus  has to have a polymorphic engine (also called "mutating engine" or "mutation engine") somewhere in its  encryption  body. see polymorphic code for technical detail on how such engines operate.[80]
 some computer-virus es employ polymorphic code in a way that constrains the mutation rate of the computer-virus  significantly. for example, a computer-virus  can be programmed to mutate only slightly over time, or it can be programmed to refrain from mutating when it infects a file on a computer that already contains copies of the computer-virus . the advantage of using such slow polymorphic code is that it makes it more difficult for antivirus professionals and investigators to obtain representative samples of the computer-virus , because "bait" files that are infected in one run will typically contain identical or similar samples of the computer-virus . this will make it more likely that the detection by the computer-virus  scanner will be unreliable, and that some instances of the computer-virus  may be able to avoid detection.
 to avoid being detected by emulation, some computer-virus es rewrite themselves completely each time they are to infect new executables. computer-virus es that utilize this technique are said to be in metamorphic code. to enable metamorphism, a "metamorphic engine" is needed. a metamorphic computer-virus  is usually very large and complex. for example, w32/simile consisted of over 14,000 lines of assembly language code, 90% of which is part of the metamorphic engine.[81][82]
 as software is often designed with security features to prevent unauthorized use of system resources, many computer-virus es must exploit and manipulate security bugs, which are security defects in a system or application software, to spread themselves and infect other computers. software development strategies that produce large numbers of "bugs" will generally also produce potential exploitable "holes" or "entrances" for the computer-virus .
 to replicate itself, a computer-virus  must be permitted to execute code and write to memory. for this reason, many computer-virus es attach themselves to executable files that may be part of legitimate programs (see code injection). if a user attempts to launch an infected program, the computer-virus ' code may be executed simultaneously.[83] in operating systems that use file extensions to determine program associations (such as microsoft windows), the extensions may be hidden from the user by default. this makes it possible to create a file that is of a different type than it appears to the user. for example, an executable may be created and named "picture.png.exe", in which the user sees only "picture.png" and therefore assumes that this file is a digital image and most likely is safe, yet when opened, it runs the executable on the client machine.[84] computer-virus es may be installed on removable media, such as flash drives. the drives may be left in a parking lot of a government building or other target, with the hopes that curious users will insert the drive into a computer. in a 2015 experiment, researchers at the university of michigan found that 45–98 percent of users would plug in a flash drive of unknown origin.[85]
 the vast majority of computer-virus es target systems running microsoft windows. this is due to microsoft's large market share of desktop computer users.[86] the diversity of software systems on a network limits the destructive potential of computer-virus es and  malware .[87] open-source operating systems such as linux allow users to choose from a variety of desktop environments, packaging tools, etc., which means that malicious code targeting any of these systems will only affect a subset of all users. many windows users are running the same set of applications, enabling computer-virus es to rapidly spread among microsoft windows systems by targeting the same exploits on large numbers of hosts.[14][15][16][88]
 while linux and unix in general have always natively prevented normal users from making changes to the operating system environment without permission, windows users are generally not prevented from making these changes, meaning that computer-virus es can easily gain control of the entire system on windows hosts. this difference has continued partly due to the widespread use of administrator accounts in contemporary versions like windows xp. in 1997, researchers created and released a computer-virus  for linux—known as "bliss".[89] bliss, however, requires that the user run it explicitly, and it can only infect programs that the user has the access to modify. unlike windows users, most unix users do not log in as an administrator, or "root user", except to install or configure software; as a result, even if a user ran the computer-virus , it could not harm their operating system. the bliss computer-virus  never became widespread, and remains chiefly a research curiosity. its creator later posted the source code to usenet, allowing researchers to see how it worked.[90]
 many users install antivirus software that can detect and eliminate known computer-virus es when the computer attempts to download or run the executable file (which may be distributed as an email attachment, or on usb flash drives, for example). some antivirus software blocks known malicious websites that attempt to install  malware . antivirus software does not change the underlying capability of hosts to transmit computer-virus es. users must update their software regularly to patch security vulnerabilities ("holes"). antivirus software also needs to be regularly updated to recognize the latest threats. this is because malicious hackers and other individuals are always creating new computer-virus es.  the german av-test institute publishes evaluations of antivirus software for windows[91] and android.[92]
 examples of microsoft windows anti computer-virus  and anti- malware  software include the optional microsoft security essentials[93] (for windows xp, vista and windows 7) for real-time protection, the windows  malware  removal tool[94] (now included with windows (security) updates on "patch tuesday", the second tuesday of each month), and windows defender (an optional download in the case of windows xp).[95] additionally, several capable antivirus software programs are available for free download from the internet (usually restricted to non-commercial use).[96] some such free programs are almost as good as commercial
competitors.[97]  common security vulnerabilities are assigned cve ids and listed in the us national vulnerability database. secunia psi[98] is an example of software, free for personal use, that will check a pc for vulnerable out-of-date software, and attempt to update it.  ransomware  and  phishing  scam alerts appear as press releases on the internet crime complaint center noticeboard.  ransomware  is a computer-virus  that posts a message on the user's screen saying that the screen or system will remain locked or unusable until a ransom payment is made.  phishing  is a deception in which the malicious individual pretends to be a friend, computer security expert, or other benevolent individual, with the goal of convincing the targeted individual to reveal passwords or other personal information.
 other commonly used preventive measures include timely operating system updates, software updates, careful internet browsing (avoiding shady websites), and installation of only trusted software.[99] certain browsers flag sites that have been reported to google and that have been confirmed as hosting  malware  by google.[100][101]
 there are two common methods that an antivirus software application uses to detect computer-virus es, as described in the antivirus software article. the first, and by far the most common method of computer-virus  detection is using a list of computer-virus  signature definitions. this works by examining the content of the computer's memory (its random access memory (ram), and boot sectors) and the files stored on fixed or removable drives (hard drives, floppy drives, or usb flash drives), and comparing those files against a database of known computer-virus  "signatures". computer-virus  signatures are just strings of code that are used to identify individual computer-virus es; for each computer-virus , the antivirus designer tries to choose a unique signature string that will not be found in a legitimate program. different antivirus programs use different "signatures" to identify computer-virus es. the disadvantage of this detection method is that users are only protected from computer-virus es that are detected by signatures in their most recent computer-virus  definition update, and not protected from new computer-virus es (see "zero-day attack").[102]
 a second method to find computer-virus es is to use a heuristic algorithm based on common computer-virus  behaviors. this method can detect new computer-virus es for which antivirus security firms have yet to define a "signature", but it also gives rise to more false positives than using signatures. false positives can be disruptive, especially in a commercial environment, because it may lead to a company instructing staff not to use the company computer system until it services have checked the system for computer-virus es. this can slow down productivity for regular workers.
 one may reduce the damage done by computer-virus es by making regular backups of data (and the operating systems) on different media, that are either kept unconnected to the system (most of the time, as in a hard drive), read-only or not accessible for other reasons, such as using different file systems. this way, if data is lost through a computer-virus , one can start again using the backup (which will hopefully be recent).[103] if a backup session on optical media like cd and dvd is closed, it becomes read-only and can no longer be affected by a computer-virus  (so long as a computer-virus  or infected file was not copied onto the cd/dvd). likewise, an operating system on a bootable cd can be used to start the computer if the installed operating systems become unusable. backups on removable media must be carefully inspected before restoration. the gammima computer-virus , for example, propagates via removable flash drives.[104][105]
 many websites run by antivirus software companies provide free online computer-virus  scanning, with limited "cleaning" facilities (after all, the purpose of the websites is to sell antivirus products and services). some websites—like google subsidiary computer-virus total.com—allow users to upload one or more suspicious files to be scanned and checked by one or more antivirus programs in one operation.[106][107] additionally, several capable antivirus software programs are available for free download from the internet (usually restricted to non-commercial use).[108] microsoft offers an optional free antivirus utility called microsoft security essentials, a windows  malware  removal tool that is updated as part of the regular windows update regime, and an older optional anti- malware  ( malware  removal) tool windows defender that has been upgraded to an antivirus product in windows 8.
 some computer-virus es disable system restore and other important windows tools such as task manager and cmd. an example of a computer-virus  that does this is ciadoor. many such computer-virus es can be removed by rebooting the computer, entering windows "safe mode" with networking, and then using system tools or microsoft safety scanner.[109] system restore on windows me, windows xp, windows vista and windows 7 can restore the registry and critical system files to a previous checkpoint. often a computer-virus  will cause a system to "hang" or "freeze", and a subsequent hard reboot will render a system restore point from the same day corrupted. restore points from previous days should work, provided the computer-virus  is not designed to corrupt the restore files and does not exist in previous restore points.[110][111]
 microsoft's system file checker (improved in windows 7 and later) can be used to check for, and repair, corrupted system files.[112] restoring an earlier "clean" (virus-free) copy of the entire partition from a cloned disk, a disk image, or a backup copy is one solution—restoring an earlier backup disk "image" is relatively simple to do, usually removes any  malware , and may be faster than "disinfecting" the computer—or reinstalling and reconfiguring the operating system and programs from scratch, as described below, then restoring user preferences.[103] reinstalling the operating system is another approach to computer-virus  removal. it may be possible to recover copies of essential user data by booting from a live cd, or connecting the hard drive to another computer and booting from the second computer's operating system, taking great care not to infect that computer by executing any infected programs on the original drive. the original hard drive can then be reformatted and the os and all programs installed from original media. once the system has been restored, precautions must be taken to avoid reinfection from any restored executable files.[113]
 before computer networks became widespread, most computer-virus es spread on removable media, particularly floppy disks. in the early days of the personal computer, many users regularly exchanged information and programs on floppies. some computer-virus es spread by infecting programs stored on these disks, while others installed themselves into the disk boot sector, ensuring that they would be run when the user booted the computer from the disk, usually inadvertently. personal computers of the era would attempt to boot first from a floppy if one had been left in the drive. until floppy disks fell out of use, this was the most successful infection strategy and boot sector computer-virus es were the most common in the "wild" for many years. traditional  computer-virus es emerged in the 1980s, driven by the spread of personal computers and the resultant increase in bulletin board system (bbs), modem use, and software sharing. bulletin board–driven software sharing contributed directly to the spread of  spyware  horse programs, and computer-virus es were written to infect popularly traded software. shareware and bootleg software were equally common vectors for computer-virus es on bbss.[114][115] computer-virus es can increase their chances of spreading to other computers by infecting files on a network file system or a file system that is accessed by other computers.[116]
 macro computer-virus es have become common since the mid-1990s. most of these computer-virus es are written in the scripting languages for microsoft programs such as microsoft word and microsoft excel and spread throughout microsoft office by infecting documents and spreadsheets. since word and excel were also available for mac os, most could also spread to macintosh computers. although most of these computer-virus es did not have the ability to send infected email messages, those computer-virus es which did take advantage of the microsoft outlook component object model (com) interface.[117][118] some old versions of microsoft word allow macros to replicate themselves with additional blank lines. if two macro computer-virus es simultaneously infect a document, the combination of the two, if also self-replicating, can appear as a "mating" of the two and would likely be detected as a computer-virus  unique from the "parents".[119]
 a computer-virus  may also send a web address link as an instant message to all the contacts (e.g., friends and colleagues' e-mail addresses) stored on an infected machine. if the recipient, thinking the link is from a friend (a trusted source) follows the link to the website, the computer-virus  hosted at the site may be able to infect this new computer and continue propagating.[120] computer-virus es that spread using cross-site scripting were first reported in 2002,[121] and were academically demonstrated in 2005.[122] there have been multiple instances of the cross-site scripting computer-virus es in the "wild", exploiting websites such as myspace (with the samy worm) and yahoo!.
 
  spyware  describes software with malicious behavior that aims to gather information about a person or organization and send such information to another entity in a way that harms the user; for example by violating their privacy or endangering their device's security. this behavior may be present in  malware  as well as in legitimate software. websites may engage in  spyware  behaviors like web tracking. hardware devices may also be affected.[1]  spyware  is frequently associated with advertising and involves many of the same issues. because these behaviors are so common, and can have non-harmful uses, providing a precise definition of  spyware  is a difficult task.[2]
 the first recorded use of the term  spyware  occurred on october 16, 1995 in a usenet post that poked fun at microsoft's business model.[3]  spyware  at first denoted software meant for espionage purposes. however, in early 2000 the founder of zone labs, gregor freund, used the term in a press release for the zonealarm personal firewall.[4] later in 2000, a parent using zonealarm was alerted to the fact that "reader rabbit," educational software marketed to children by the mattel toy company, was surreptitiously sending data back to mattel.[5] since then, " spyware " has taken on its present sense.
 according to a 2005 study by aol and the national cyber-security alliance, 61 percent of surveyed users' computers were infected with form of  spyware . 92 percent of surveyed users with  spyware  reported that they did not know of its presence, and 91 percent reported that they had not given permission for the installation of the  spyware .[6]
as of 2006[update],  spyware  has become one of the preeminent security threats to computer systems running microsoft windows operating systems. computers on which internet explorer (ie) is the primary browser are particularly vulnerable to such attacks, not only because ie is the most widely used,[7] but because its tight integration with windows allows  spyware  access to crucial parts of the operating system.[7][8]
 before internet explorer 6 sp2 was released as part of windows xp service pack 2, the browser would automatically display an installation window for any activex component that a website wanted to install. the combination of user ignorance about these changes, and the assumption by internet explorer that all activex components are benign, helped to spread  spyware  significantly. many  spyware  components would also make use of exploits in javascript, internet explorer and windows to install without user knowledge or permission.
 the windows registry contains multiple sections where modification of key values allows software to be executed automatically when the operating system boots.  spyware  can exploit this design to circumvent attempts at removal. the  spyware  typically will link itself from each location in the registry that allows execution. once running, the  spyware  will periodically check if any of these links are removed. if so, they will be automatically restored. this ensures that the  spyware  will execute when the operating system is booted, even if some (or most) of the registry links are removed.
  spyware  is mostly classified into four types:  spyware , system monitors, tracking including web tracking, and  spyware s;[9] examples of other notorious types include digital rights management capabilities that "phone home", keyloggers, rootkits, and web beacons. these four categories are not mutually exclusive and they have similar tactics in attacking networks and devices.[10] the main goal is to install, hack into the network, avoid being detected, and safely remove themselves from the network.[10]
  spyware  is mostly used for the stealing information and storing internet users' movements on the web and serving up pop-up ads to internet users. whenever  spyware  is used for malicious purposes, its presence is typically hidden from the user and can be difficult to detect. some  spyware , such as keyloggers, may be installed by the owner of a shared, corporate, or public computer intentionally in order to monitor users.
 while the term  spyware  suggests software that monitors a user's computing, the functions of  spyware  can extend beyond simple monitoring.  spyware  can collect almost any type of data, including personal information like internet surfing habits, user logins, and bank or credit account information.  spyware  can also interfere with a user's control of a computer by installing additional software or redirecting web browsers.[11] some  spyware  can change computer settings, which can result in slow internet connection speeds, un-authorized changes in browser settings, or changes to software settings.
 sometimes,  spyware  is included along with genuine software, and may come from a malicious website or may have been added to the intentional functionality of genuine software (see the paragraph about facebook, below). in response to the emergence of  spyware , a small industry has sprung up dealing in anti- spyware  software. running anti- spyware  software has become a widely recognized element of computer security practices, especially for computers running microsoft windows. a number of jurisdictions have passed anti- spyware  laws, which usually target any software that is surreptitiously installed to control a user's computer.
 in german-speaking countries,  spyware  used or made by the government is called govware by computer experts (in common parlance: regierungs spyware er, literally "government  spyware "). govware is typically a  spyware  horse software used to intercept communications from the target computer. some countries, like switzerland and germany, have a legal framework governing the use of such software.[12][13] in the us, the term "policeware" has been used for similar purposes.[14]
 use of the term " spyware " has eventually declined as the practice of tracking users has been pushed ever further into the mainstream by major websites and data mining companies; these generally break no known laws and compel users to be tracked, not by fraudulent practices per se, but by the default settings created for users and the language of terms-of-service agreements. in one documented example, on cbs/cnet news reported, on march 7, 2011, on a wall street journal analysis revealing the practice of facebook and other websites of tracking users' browsing activity, linked to their identity, far beyond users' visits and activity within the facebook site itself. the report stated: "here's how it works. you go to facebook, you log in, you spend some time there, and then ... you move on without logging out. let's say the next site you go to is new york times. those buttons, without you clicking on them, have just reported back to facebook and twitter that you went there and also your identity within those accounts. let's say you moved on to something like a site about depression. this one also has a tweet button, a google widget, and those, too, can report back who you are and that you went there." the wsj analysis was researched by brian kennish, founder of disconnect, inc.[15]
  spyware  does not necessarily spread in the same way as a computer-virus  or worm because infected systems generally do not attempt to transmit or copy the software to other computers. instead,  spyware  installs itself on a system by deceiving the user or by exploiting software vulnerabilities.
 most  spyware  is installed without  knowledge, or by using deceptive tactics.  spyware  may try to deceive users by bundling itself with desirable software. other common tactics are using a  spyware  horse, spy gadgets that look like normal devices but turn out to be something else, such as a usb keylogger. these devices actually are connected to the device as memory units but are capable of recording each stroke made on the keyboard. some  spyware  authors infect a system through security holes in the web browser or in other software. when the user navigates to a web page controlled by the  spyware  author, the page contains code which attacks the browser and forces the download and installation of  spyware .
 the installation of  spyware  frequently involves internet explorer. its popularity and history of security issues have made it a frequent target. its deep integration with the windows environment make it susceptible to attack into the windows operating system. internet explorer also serves as a point of attachment for  spyware  in the form of browser helper objects, which modify the browser's behaviour.
 a  spyware  rarely operates alone on a computer; an affected machine usually has multiple infections. users frequently notice unwanted behavior and degradation of system performance. a  spyware  infestation can create significant unwanted cpu activity, disk usage, and network traffic. stability issues, such as applications freezing, failure to boot, and system-wide crashes are also common.  spyware , which interferes with networking software commonly causes difficulty connecting to the internet.
 in some infections, the  spyware  is not even evident. users assume in those situations that the performance issues relate to faulty hardware, windows installation problems, or another  malware  infection. some owners of badly infected systems resort to contacting technical support experts, or even buying a new computer because the existing system "has become too slow". badly infected systems may require a clean reinstallation of all their software in order to return to full functionality.
 moreover, some types of  spyware  disable software firewalls and antivirus software, and/or reduce browser security settings, which opens the system to further opportunistic infections. some  spyware  disables or even removes competing  spyware  programs, on the grounds that more  spyware -related annoyances increase the likelihood that users will take action to remove the programs.[16]
 keyloggers are sometimes part of  malware  packages downloaded onto computers without the owners' knowledge. some keylogger software is freely available on the internet, while others are commercial or private applications. most keyloggers allow not only keyboard keystrokes to be captured, they also are often capable of collecting screen captures from the computer.
 a typical windows user has administrative privileges, mostly for convenience. because of this, any program the user runs has unrestricted access to the system. as with other operating systems, windows users are able to follow the principle of least privilege and use non-administrator accounts. alternatively, they can reduce the privileges of specific vulnerable internet-facing processes, such as internet explorer.
 since windows vista is, by default, a computer administrator that runs everything under limited user privileges, when a program requires administrative privileges, a user account control pop-up will prompt the user to allow or deny the action. this improves on the design used by previous versions of windows.
 as the  spyware  threat has evolved, a number of techniques have emerged to counteract it. these include programs designed to remove or block  spyware , as well as various user practices which reduce the chance of getting  spyware  on a system.
 nonetheless,  spyware  remains a costly problem. when a large number of pieces of  spyware  have infected a windows computer, the only remedy may involve backing up user data, and fully reinstalling the operating system. for instance, some  spyware  cannot be completely removed by symantec, microsoft, pc tools.
 many programmers and some commercial firms have released products dedicated to remove or block  spyware . programs such as pc tools'  spyware  doctor, lavasoft's ad-aware se and patrick kolla's spybot - search & destroy rapidly gained popularity as tools to remove, and in some cases intercept,  spyware  programs.  on december, 2004, microsoft acquired the giant anti spyware  software,[17] re‑branding it as microsoft anti spyware  (beta 1) and releasing it as a free download for genuine windows xp and windows 2003 users. in november, 2005, it was renamed windows defender.[18][19]
 major anti-virus firms such as symantec, pc tools, mcafee and sophos have also added anti- spyware  features to their existing anti-virus products. early on, anti-virus firms expressed reluctance to add anti- spyware  functions, citing lawsuits brought by  spyware  authors against the authors of web sites and programs which described their products as " spyware ". however, recent versions of these major firms home and business anti-virus products do include anti- spyware  functions, albeit treated differently from computer-virus es. symantec anti-virus, for instance, categorizes  spyware  programs as "extended threats" and now offers real-time protection against these threats.
 anti- spyware  programs can combat  spyware  in two ways:
 such programs inspect the contents of the windows registry, operating system files, and installed programs, and remove files and entries which match a list of known  spyware . real-time protection from  spyware  works identically to real-time anti-virus protection: the software scans disk files at download time, and blocks the activity of components known to represent  spyware .
in some cases, it may also intercept attempts to install start-up items or to modify browser settings. earlier versions of anti- spyware  programs focused chiefly on detection and removal. javacool software's  spyware blaster, one of the first to offer real-time protection, blocked the installation of activex-based  spyware .
 like most anti-virus software, many anti- spyware / spyware  tools require a frequently updated database of threats. as new  spyware  programs are released, anti- spyware  developers discover and evaluate them, adding to the list of known  spyware , which allows the software to detect and remove new  spyware . as a result, anti- spyware  software is of limited usefulness without regular updates. updates may be installed automatically or manually.
 a popular generic  spyware  removal tool used by those that requires a certain degree of expertise is hijackthis, which scans certain areas of the windows os where  spyware  often resides and presents a list with items to delete manually. as most of the items are legitimate windows files/registry entries it is advised for those who are less knowledgeable on this subject to post a hijackthis log on the numerous anti spyware  sites and let the experts decide what to delete.
 if a  spyware  program is not blocked and manages to get itself installed, it may resist attempts to terminate or uninstall it. some programs work in pairs: when an anti- spyware  scanner (or the user) terminates one running process, the other one respawns the killed program. likewise, some  spyware  will detect attempts to remove registry keys and immediately add them again. usually, booting the infected computer in safe mode allows an anti- spyware  program a better chance of removing persistent  spyware . killing the process tree may also work.
 to detect  spyware , computer users have found several practices useful in addition to installing anti- spyware  programs.  many users have installed a web browser other than internet explorer, such as mozilla firefox or google chrome. though no browser is completely safe, internet explorer was once at a greater risk for  spyware  infection due to its large user base as well as vulnerabilities such as activex but these three major browsers are now close to equivalent when it comes to security.[20][21]
 some isps—particularly colleges and universities—have taken a different approach to blocking  spyware : they use their network firewalls and web proxies to block access to web sites known to install  spyware . on march 31, 2005, cornell university's information technology department released a report detailing the behavior of one particular piece of proxy-based  spyware , marketscore, and the steps the university took to intercept it.[22] many other educational institutions have taken similar steps.
 individual users can also install firewalls from a variety of companies.  these monitor the flow of information going to and from a networked computer and provide protection against  spyware  and  malware .  some users install a large hosts file which prevents the user's computer from connecting to known  spyware -related web addresses.   spyware  may get installed via certain shareware programs offered for download. downloading programs only from reputable sources can provide some protection from this source of attack.[23]
 individual users can use cellphone / computer with physical (electric) switch, or isolated electronic switch that disconnects microphone, camera without bypass and keep it in disconnected position where not in use, that limits information that  spyware  can collect. (policy recommended by nist guidelines for managing the security of mobile devices, 2013).
 a few  spyware  vendors, notably 180 solutions, have written what the new york times has dubbed "stealware", and what  spyware  researcher ben edelman terms affiliate fraud, a form of click fraud. stealware diverts the payment of affiliate marketing revenues from the legitimate affiliate to the  spyware  vendor.
  spyware  which attacks affiliate networks places the  spyware  operator's affiliate tag on the user's activity – replacing any other tag, if there is one. the  spyware  operator is the only party that gains from this. the user has their choices thwarted, a legitimate affiliate loses revenue, networks' reputations are injured, and vendors are harmed by having to pay out affiliate revenues to an "affiliate" who is not party to a contract.[24] affiliate fraud is a violation of the terms of service of most affiliate marketing networks. mobile devices can also be vulnerable to chargeware, which manipulates users into illegitimate mobile charges.
 in one case,  spyware  has been closely associated with identity theft.[25] in august 2005, researchers from security software firm sunbelt software suspected the creators of the common coolwebsearch  spyware  had used it to transmit "chat sessions, user names, passwords, bank information, etc.";[26] however it turned out that "it actually (was) its own sophisticated criminal little  spyware  that's independent of cws."[27] this case is currently under investigation by the fbi.
 the federal trade commission estimates that 27.3 million americans have been victims of identity theft, and that financial losses from identity theft totaled nearly $48 billion for businesses and financial institutions and at least $5 billion in out-of-pocket expenses for individuals.[28]
 some copy-protection technologies have borrowed from  spyware . in 2005, sony bmg music entertainment was found to be using rootkits in its xcp digital rights management technology[29] like  spyware , not only was it difficult to detect and uninstall, it was so poorly written that most efforts to remove it could have rendered computers unable to function.
texas attorney general greg abbott filed suit,[30] and three separate class-action suits were filed.[31] sony bmg later provided a workaround on its website to help users remove it.[32]
 beginning on april 25, 2006, microsoft's windows genuine advantage notifications application[33] was installed on most windows pcs as a "critical security update". while the main purpose of this deliberately uninstallable application is to ensure the copy of windows on the machine was lawfully purchased and installed, it also installs software that has been accused of "phoning home" on a daily basis, like  spyware .[34][35] it can be removed with the removewga tool.
 stalkerware is  spyware  that has been used to monitor electronic activities of partners in intimate relationships. at least one software package, loverspy, was specifically marketed for this purpose. depending on local laws regarding communal/marital property, observing a partner's online activity without their consent may be illegal; the author of loverspy and several users of the product were indicted in california in 2005 on charges of wiretapping and various computer crimes.[36]
 anti- spyware  programs often report web advertisers' http cookies, the small text files that track browsing activity, as  spyware . while they are not always inherently malicious, many users object to third parties using space on their personal computers for their business purposes, and many anti- spyware  programs offer to remove them.[37]
 these common  spyware  programs illustrate the diversity of behaviors found in these attacks. note that as with  computer-virus es, researchers give names to  spyware  programs which may not be used by their creators. programs may be grouped into "families" based not on shared program code, but on common behaviors, or by "following the money" of apparent financial or business connections. for instance, a number of the  spyware  programs distributed by claria are collectively known as "gator". likewise, programs that are frequently installed together may be described as parts of the same  spyware  package, even if they function separately.
 malicious programmers have released a large number of rogue (fake) anti- spyware  programs, and widely distributed web banner ads can warn users that their computers have been infected with  spyware , directing them to purchase programs which do not actually remove  spyware —or else, may add more  spyware  of their own.[38][39]
 the recent[update] proliferation of fake or spoofed antivirus products that bill themselves as anti spyware  can be troublesome.  users may receive popups prompting them to install them to protect their computer, when it will in fact add  spyware .  this software is called rogue software.  it is recommended that users do not install any freeware claiming to be anti- spyware  unless it is verified to be legitimate. some known offenders include:
 fake antivirus products constitute 15 percent of all  malware .[41]
 on january 26, 2006, microsoft and the washington state attorney general filed suit against secure computer for its  spyware  cleaner product.[42]
 unauthorized access to a computer is illegal under computer crime laws, such as the u.s. computer fraud and abuse act, the u.k.'s computer misuse act, and similar laws in other countries. since owners of computers infected with  spyware  generally claim that they never authorized the installation, a prima facie reading would suggest that the promulgation of  spyware  would count as a criminal act. law enforcement has often pursued the authors of other  malware , particularly computer-virus es. however, few  spyware  developers have been prosecuted, and many operate openly as strictly legitimate businesses, though some have faced lawsuits.[43][44]
  spyware  producers argue that, contrary to the users' claims, users do in fact give consent to installations.  spyware  that comes bundled with shareware applications may be described in the legalese text of an end-user license agreement (eula). many users habitually ignore these purported contracts, but  spyware  companies such as claria say these demonstrate that users have consented.
 despite the ubiquity of eulas agreements, under which a single click can be taken as consent to the entire text, relatively little caselaw has resulted from their use. it has been established in most common law jurisdictions that this type of agreement can be a binding contract in certain circumstances.[45] this does not, however, mean that every such agreement is a contract, or that every term in one is enforceable.
 some jurisdictions, including the u.s. states of iowa[46] and washington,[47] have passed laws criminalizing some forms of  spyware . such laws make it illegal for anyone other than the owner or operator of a computer to install software that alters web-browser settings, monitors keystrokes, or disables computer-security software.
 in the united states, lawmakers introduced a bill in 2005 entitled the internet  spyware  prevention act, which would imprison creators of  spyware .[48]
 the us federal trade commission has sued internet marketing organizations under the "unfairness doctrine"[49] to make them stop infecting consumers' pcs with  spyware . in one case, that against seismic entertainment productions, the ftc accused the defendants of developing a program that seized control of pcs nationwide, infected them with  spyware  and other  malware , bombarded them with a barrage of pop-up advertising for seismic's clients, exposed the pcs to security risks, and caused them to malfunction. seismic then offered to sell the victims an "anti spyware " program to fix the computers, and stop the popups and other problems that seismic had caused. on november 21, 2006, a settlement was entered in federal court under which a $1.75 million judgment was imposed in one case and $1.86 million in another, but the defendants were insolvent[50]
 in a second case, brought against cyberspy software llc, the ftc charged that cyberspy marketed and sold "remotespy" keylogger  spyware  to clients who would then secretly monitor unsuspecting consumers' computers. according to the ftc, cyberspy touted remotespy as a "100% undetectable" way to "spy on anyone. from anywhere." the ftc has obtained a temporary order prohibiting the defendants from selling the software and disconnecting from the internet any of their servers that collect, store, or provide access to information that this software has gathered. the case is still in its preliminary stages.  a complaint filed by the electronic privacy information center (epic) brought the remotespy software to the ftc's attention.[51]
 an administrative fine, the first of its kind in europe, has been issued by the independent authority of posts and telecommunications (opta) from the netherlands. it applied fines in total value of euro 1,000,000 for infecting 22 million computers. the  spyware  concerned is called dollarrevenue. the law articles that have been violated are art. 4.1 of the decision on universal service providers and on the interests of end users; the fines have been issued based on art. 15.4 taken together with art. 15.10 of the dutch telecommunications law.[52]
 former new york state attorney general and former governor of new york eliot spitzer has pursued  spyware  companies for fraudulent installation of software.[53] in a suit brought in 2005 by spitzer, the california firm intermix media, inc. ended up settling, by agreeing to pay us$7.5 million and to stop distributing  spyware .[54]
 the hijacking of web advertisements has also led to litigation. in june 2002, a number of large web publishers sued claria for replacing advertisements, but settled out of court.
 courts have not yet had to decide whether advertisers can be held liable for  spyware  that displays their ads. in many cases, the companies whose advertisements appear in  spyware  pop-ups do not directly do business with the  spyware  firm. rather, they have contracted with an advertising agency, which in turn contracts with an online subcontractor who gets paid by the number of "impressions" or appearances of the advertisement. some major firms such as dell computer and mercedes-benz have sacked advertising agencies that have run their ads in  spyware .[55]
 litigation has gone both ways. since " spyware " has become a common pejorative, some makers have filed libel and defamation actions when their products have been so described. in 2003, gator (now known as claria) filed suit against the website pc pitstop for describing its program as " spyware ".[56] pc pitstop settled, agreeing not to use the word " spyware ", but continues to describe harm caused by the gator/claria software.[57] as a result, other anti- spyware  and anti-virus companies have also used other terms such as "potentially unwanted programs" or greyware to denote these products.
 in the 2010 webcamgate case, plaintiffs charged two suburban philadelphia high schools secretly spied on students by surreptitiously and remotely activating webcams embedded in school-issued laptops the students were using at home, and therefore infringed on their privacy rights.  the school loaded each student's computer with lanrev's remote activation tracking software.  this included the now-discontinued "thefttrack".  while thefttrack was not enabled by default on the software, the program allowed the school district to elect to activate it, and to choose which of the thefttrack surveillance options the school wanted to enable.[58]
 thefttrack allowed school district employees to secretly remotely activate the webcam embedded in the student's laptop, above the laptop's screen. that allowed school officials to secretly take photos through the webcam, of whatever was in front of it and in its line of sight, and send the photos to the school's server.  the lanrev software disabled the webcams for all other uses (e.g., students were unable to use photo booth or video chat), so most students mistakenly believed their webcams did not work at all.  in addition to webcam surveillance, thefttrack allowed school officials to take screenshots, and send them to the school's server. in addition, lanrev allowed school officials to take snapshots of instant messages, web browsing, music playlists, and written compositions.  the schools admitted to secretly snapping over 66,000 webshots and screenshots, including webcam shots of students in their bedrooms.[58][59][60]
 other reasons this message may be displayed:
 
  ransomware  is a type of  malware  from cryptovirology that threatens to publish the victim's data or perpetually block access to it unless a ransom is paid. while some simple  ransomware  may lock the system so that it is not difficult for a knowledgeable person to reverse, more advanced  malware  uses a technique called cryptoviral extortion. it  encryption  the victim's files, making them inaccessible, and demands a ransom payment to decrypt them.[1][2][3][4] in a properly implemented cryptoviral extortion attack, recovering the files without the decryption key is an intractable problem – and difficult to trace digital currencies such as paysafecard or bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are used for the ransoms, making tracing and prosecuting the perpetrators difficult.
  ransomware  attacks are typically carried out using a  spyware  disguised as a legitimate file that the user is tricked into downloading or opening when it arrives as an email attachment. however, one high-profile example, the  ransomware  worm, traveled automatically between computers without user interaction.[5]
 starting from around 2012, the use of  ransomware  scams has grown internationally.[6][7][8] there were 181.5 million  ransomware  attacks in the first six months of 2018. this record marks a 229% increase over this same time frame in 2017.[9] in june 2014, vendor mcafee released data showing that it had collected more than double the number of  ransomware  samples that quarter than it had in the same quarter of the previous year.[10]  ransomware  was particularly successful, procuring an estimated us$3 million before it was taken down by authorities,[11] and cryptowall was estimated by the us federal bureau of investigation (fbi) to have accrued over us$18 million by june 2015.[12]
 the concept of file- encryption   ransomware  was invented and implemented by young and yung at columbia university and was presented at the 1996 ieee security & privacy conference. it is called cryptoviral extortion and it was inspired by the fictional facehugger in the movie alien.[13] cryptoviral extortion is the following three-round protocol carried out between the attacker and the victim.[1]
 the symmetric key is randomly generated and will not assist other victims. at no point is the attacker's private key exposed to victims and the victim need only send a very small ciphertext (the  encryption  symmetric-cipher key) to the attacker.
  ransomware  attacks are typically carried out using a  spyware , entering a system through, for example, a malicious attachment, embedded link in a  phishing  email, or a vulnerability in a network service. the program then runs a payload, which locks the system in some fashion, or claims to lock the system but does not (e.g., a scareware program). payloads may display a fake warning purportedly by an entity such as a law enforcement agency, falsely claiming that the system has been used for illegal activities, contains content such as pornography and "pirated" media.[14][15][16]
 some payloads consist simply of an application designed to lock or restrict the system until payment is made, typically by setting the windows shell to itself,[17] or even modifying the master boot record and/or partition table to prevent the operating system from booting until it is repaired.[18] the most sophisticated payloads encryption files, with many using strong  encryption  to encryption the victim's files in such a way that only the  malware  author has the needed decryption key.[1][19][20]
 payment is virtually always the goal, and the victim is coerced into paying for the  ransomware  to be removed either by supplying a program that can decrypt the files, or by sending an unlock code that undoes the payload's changes. while the attacker may simply take the money without returning the victim's files, it is in the attacker's best interest to perform the decryption as agreed, since victims will stop sending payments if it becomes known that they serve no purpose. a key element in making  ransomware  work for the attacker is a convenient payment system that is hard to trace. a range of such payment methods have been used, including wire transfers, premium-rate text messages,[21] pre-paid voucher services such as paysafecard,[6][22][23] and the bitcoin cryptocurrency.[24][25][26]
 in may 2020, vendor sophos reported that the global average cost to remediate a  ransomware  attack (considering downtime, people time, device cost, network cost, lost opportunity and ransom paid) was $761,106. ninety-five percent of organizations that paid the ransom had their data restored.[27]
 the first known  malware  extortion attack, the "aids  spyware " written by joseph popp in 1989, had a design failure so severe it was not necessary to pay the extortionist at all. its payload hid the files on the hard drive and  encryption  only their names, and displayed a message claiming that the user's license to use a certain piece of software had expired. the user was asked to pay us$189 to "pc cyborg corporation" in order to obtain a repair tool even though the decryption key could be extracted from the code of the  spyware . the  spyware  was also known as "pc cyborg". popp was declared mentally unfit to stand trial for his actions, but he promised to donate the profits from the  malware  to fund aids research.[28]
 the idea of abusing anonymous cash systems to safely collect ransom from human kidnapping was introduced in 1992 by sebastiaan von solms and david naccache.[29] this electronic money collection method was also proposed for cryptoviral extortion attacks.[1] in the von solms-naccache scenario a newspaper publication was used (since bitcoin ledgers did not exist at the time the paper was written).
 the notion of using public key cryptography for data kidnapping attacks was introduced in 1996 by adam l. young and moti yung. young and yung critiqued the failed aids information  spyware  that relied on symmetric cryptography alone, the fatal flaw being that the decryption key could be extracted from the  spyware , and implemented an experimental proof-of-concept cryptovirus on a macintosh se/30 that used rsa and the tiny  encryption  algorithm (tea) to hybrid encryption the victim's data. since public key cryptography is used, the computer-virus  only contains the  encryption  key. the attacker keeps the corresponding private decryption key private. young and yung's original experimental cryptovirus had the victim send the asymmetric ciphertext to the attacker who deciphers it and returns the symmetric decryption key it contains to the victim for a fee. long before electronic money existed young and yung proposed that electronic money could be extorted through  encryption  as well, stating that "the computer-virus  writer can effectively hold all of the money ransom until half of it is given to him. even if the e-money was previously  encryption  by the user, it is of no use to the user if it gets  encryption  by a cryptovirus".[1] they referred to these attacks as being "cryptoviral extortion", an overt attack that is part of a larger class of attacks in a field called cryptovirology, which encompasses both overt and covert attacks.[1] the cryptoviral extortion protocol was inspired by the parasitic relationship between h. r. giger's facehugger and its host in the movie alien.[1][13]
 examples of extortionate  ransomware  became prominent in may 2005.[30] by mid-2006,  spyware s such as gpcode, troj.ransom.a, archiveus, krotten, cryzip, and mayarchive began utilizing more sophisticated rsa  encryption  schemes, with ever-increasing key-sizes. gpcode.ag, which was detected in june 2006, was  encryption  with a 660-bit rsa public key.[31] in june 2008, a variant known as gpcode.ak was detected. using a 1024-bit rsa key, it was believed large enough to be computationally infeasible to break without a concerted distributed effort.[32][33][34][35]
  encryption   ransomware  returned to prominence in late 2013 with the propagation of  ransomware —using the bitcoin digital currency platform to collect ransom money. in december 2013, zdnet estimated based on bitcoin transaction information that between 15 october and 18 december, the operators of  ransomware  had procured about us$27 million from infected users.[36] the  ransomware  technique was widely copied in the months following, including  ransomware  2.0 (thought not to be related to  ransomware ), cryptodefense (which initially contained a major design flaw that stored the private key on the infected system in a user-retrievable location, due to its use of windows' built-in  encryption  apis),[25][37][38][39] and the august 2014 discovery of a  spyware  specifically targeting network-attached storage devices produced by synology.[40] in january 2015, it was reported that  ransomware -styled attacks have occurred against individual websites via hacking, and through  ransomware  designed to target linux-based web servers.[41][42][43]
 in some infections, there is a two-stage payload, common in many  malware  systems. the user is tricked into running a script, which downloads the main computer-virus  and executes it. in early versions of the dual-payload system, the script was contained in a microsoft office document with an attached vbscript macro, or in a windows scripting facility (wsf) file. as detection systems started blocking these first stage payloads, the microsoft  malware  protection center identified a trend away toward lnk files with self-contained microsoft windows powershell scripts.[44] in 2016, powershell was found to be involved in nearly 40% of endpoint security incidents,[45]
 some  ransomware  strains have used proxies tied to tor hidden services to connect to their command and control servers, increasing the difficulty of tracing the exact location of the criminals.[46][47] furthermore, dark web vendors have increasingly started to offer the technology as a service.[47][48][49]
 symantec has classified  ransomware  to be the most dangerous cyber threat.[50]
 on 28 september 2020, the computer systems at us’ biggest healthcare provider the universal health services, was hit by a  ransomware  attack. the uhs chain from different locations reported noticing problems, with some locations reporting locked computers and phone systems from early sunday (27 september).[51][50]
 in august 2010, russian authorities arrested nine individuals connected to a  ransomware   spyware  known as winlock. unlike the previous gpcode  spyware , winlock did not use  encryption . instead, winlock trivially restricted access to the system by displaying pornographic images and asked users to send a premium-rate sms (costing around us$10) to receive a code that could be used to unlock their machines. the scam hit numerous users across russia and neighbouring countries—reportedly earning the group over us$16 million.[16][52]
 in 2011, a  ransomware   spyware  surfaced that imitated the windows product activation notice,  and informed users that a system's windows installation had to be re-activated due to "[being a] victim of fraud". an online activation option was offered (like the actual windows activation process), but was unavailable, requiring the user to call one of six international numbers to input a 6-digit code. while the  malware  claimed that this call would be free, it was routed through a rogue operator in a country with high international phone rates, who placed the call on hold, causing the user to incur large international long distance charges.[14]
 in february 2013, a  ransomware   spyware  based on the stamp.ek exploit kit surfaced; the  malware  was distributed via sites hosted on the project hosting services sourceforge and github that claimed to offer "fake nude pics" of celebrities.[53] in july 2013, an os x-specific  ransomware   spyware  surfaced, which displays a web page that accuses the user of downloading pornography. unlike its windows-based counterparts, it does not block the entire computer, but simply exploits the behaviour of the web browser itself to frustrate attempts to close the page through normal means.[54]
 in july 2013, a 21-year-old man from virginia, whose computer coincidentally did contain pornographic photographs of underage girls with whom he had conducted sexualized communications, turned himself in to police after receiving and being deceived by fbi moneypak  ransomware  accusing him of possessing child pornography. an investigation discovered the incriminating files, and the man was charged with child sexual abuse and possession of child pornography.[55]
 the converse of  ransomware  is a cryptovirology attack invented by adam l. young that threatens to publish stolen information from the victim's computer system rather than deny the victim access to it.[56] in a leakware attack,  malware  exfiltrates sensitive host data either to the attacker or alternatively, to remote instances of the  malware , and the attacker threatens to publish the victim's data unless a ransom is paid. the attack was presented at west point in 2003 and was summarized in the book malicious cryptography as follows, "the attack differs from the extortion attack in the following way. in the extortion attack, the victim is denied access to its own valuable information and has to pay to get it back, where in the attack that is presented here the victim retains access to the information but its disclosure is at the discretion of the  computer-virus ".[57] the attack is rooted in game theory and was originally dubbed "non-zero sum games and survivable  malware ". the attack can yield monetary gain in cases where the  malware  acquires access to information that may damage the victim user or organization, e.g., the reputational damage that could result from publishing proof that the attack itself was a success.
 common targets for exfiltration include:
 exfiltration attacks are usually targeted, with a curated victim list, and often preliminary surveillance of the victim's systems to find potential data targets and weaknesses.[58][59]
 with the increased popularity of  ransomware  on pc platforms,  ransomware  targeting mobile operating systems has also proliferated. typically, mobile  ransomware  payloads are blockers, as there is little incentive to encryption data since it can be easily restored via online synchronization.[60] mobile  ransomware  typically targets the android platform, as it allows applications to be installed from third-party sources.[60][61] the payload is typically distributed as an apk file installed by an unsuspecting user; it may attempt to display a blocking message over top of all other applications,[61] while another used a form of clickjacking to cause the user to give it "device administrator" privileges to achieve deeper access to the system.[62]
 different tactics have been used on ios devices, such as exploiting icloud accounts and using the find my iphone system to lock access to the device.[63] on ios 10.3, apple patched a bug in the handling of javascript pop-up windows in safari that had been exploited by  ransomware  websites.[64] 
it recently has been shown that  ransomware  may also target arm architectures like those that can be found in various internet-of-things (iot) devices, such as industrial iot edge devices.[65]
 in august 2019 researchers demonstrated it's possible to infect dslr cameras with  ransomware .[66] digital cameras often use picture transfer protocol (ptp - standard protocol used to transfer files.) researchers found that it was possible to exploit vulnerabilities in the protocol to infect target camera(s) with  ransomware  (or execute any arbitrary code). this attack was presented at the defcon security conference in las vegas as a proof of concept attack (not as actual armed  malware ).
 in 2012, a major  ransomware   spyware  known as reveton began to spread. based on the citadel  spyware  (which itself, is based on the zeus  spyware ), its payload displays a warning purportedly from a law enforcement agency claiming that the computer has been used for illegal activities, such as downloading unlicensed software or child pornography. due to this behaviour, it is commonly referred to as the "police  spyware ".[67][68][69] the warning informs the user that to unlock their system, they would have to pay a fine using a voucher from an anonymous prepaid cash service such as ukash or paysafecard. to increase the illusion that the computer is being tracked by law enforcement, the screen also displays the computer's ip address, while some versions display footage from a victim's webcam to give the illusion that the user is being recorded.[6][70]
 reveton initially began spreading in various european countries in early 2012.[6] variants were localized with templates branded with the logos of different law enforcement organizations based on the user's country; for example, variants used in the united kingdom contained the branding of organizations such as the metropolitan police service and the police national e-crime unit. another version contained the logo of the royalty collection society prs for music, which specifically accused the user of illegally downloading music.[71] in a statement warning the public about the  malware , the metropolitan police clarified that they would never lock a computer in such a way as part of an investigation.[6][15]
 in may 2012, trend micro threat researchers discovered templates for variations for the united states and canada, suggesting that its authors may have been planning to target users in north america.[72] by august 2012, a new variant of reveton began to spread in the united states, claiming to require the payment of a $200 fine to the fbi using a moneypak card.[7][8][70] in february 2013, a russian citizen was arrested in dubai by spanish authorities for his connection to a crime ring that had been using reveton; ten other individuals were arrested on money laundering charges.[73] in august 2014, avast software reported that it had found new variants of reveton that also distribute password-stealing  malware  as part of its payload.[74]
  encryption   ransomware  reappeared in september 2013 with a  spyware  known as  ransomware , which generated a 2048-bit rsa key pair and uploaded in turn to a command-and-control server, and used to encryption files using a whitelist of specific file extensions. the  malware  threatened to delete the private key if a payment of bitcoin or a pre-paid cash voucher was not made within 3 days of the infection. due to the extremely large key size it uses, analysts and those affected by the  spyware  considered  ransomware  extremely difficult to repair.[24][75][76][77] even after the deadline passed, the private key could still be obtained using an online tool, but the price would increase to 10 btc—which cost approximately us$2300 as of november 2013.[78][79]
  ransomware  was isolated by the seizure of the gameover zeus  malicious-bot  as part of operation tovar, as officially announced by the u.s. department of justice on 2 june 2014. the department of justice also publicly issued an indictment against the russian hacker evgeniy bogachev for his alleged involvement in the  malicious-bot .[80][81] it was estimated that at least us$3 million was extorted with the  malware  before the shutdown.[11]
 in september 2014, a wave of  ransomware   spyware s surfaced that first targeted users in australia, under the names cryptowall and  ransomware  (which is, as with  ransomware  2.0, unrelated to the original  ransomware ). the  spyware s spread via fraudulent e-mails claiming to be failed parcel delivery notices from australia post; to evade detection by automatic e-mail scanners that follow all links on a page to scan for  malware , this variant was designed to require users to visit a web page and enter a captcha code before the payload is actually downloaded, preventing such automated processes from being able to scan the payload. symantec determined that these new variants, which it identified as  ransomware .f, were again, unrelated to the original  ransomware  due to differences in their operation.[82][83] a notable victim of the  spyware s was the australian broadcasting corporation; live programming on its television news channel abc news 24 was disrupted for half an hour and shifted to melbourne studios due to a cryptowall infection on computers at its sydney studio.[84][85][86]
 another  spyware  in this wave, torrentlocker, initially contained a design flaw comparable to cryptodefense; it used the same keystream for every infected computer, making the  encryption  trivial to overcome. however, this flaw was later fixed.[37] by late-november 2014, it was estimated that over 9,000 users had been infected by torrentlocker in australia alone, trailing only turkey with 11,700 infections.[87]
 another major  ransomware   spyware  targeting windows, cryptowall, first appeared in 2014. one strain of cryptowall was distributed as part of a malvertising campaign on the zedo ad network in late-september 2014 that targeted several major websites; the ads redirected to rogue websites that used browser plugin exploits to download the payload. a barracuda networks researcher also noted that the payload was signed with a digital signature in an effort to appear trustworthy to security software.[88] 
cryptowall 3.0 used a payload written in javascript as part of an email attachment, which downloads executables disguised as jpg images. to further evade detection, the  malware  creates new instances of explorer.exe and svchost.exe to communicate with its servers. when  encryption  files, the  malware  also deletes volume shadow copies and installs  spyware  that steals passwords and bitcoin wallets.[89]
 the fbi reported in june 2015 that nearly 1,000 victims had contacted the bureau's internet crime complaint center to report cryptowall infections, and estimated losses of at least $18 million.[12]
 the most recent version, cryptowall 4.0, enhanced its code to avoid antivirus detection, and  encryption  not only the data in files but also the file names.[90]
 fusob is one of the major mobile  ransomware  families. between april 2015 and march 2016, about 56 percent of accounted mobile  ransomware  was fusob.[91]
 like a typical mobile  ransomware , it employs scare tactics to extort people to pay a ransom.[92] the program pretends to be an accusatory authority, demanding the victim to pay a fine from $100 to $200 usd or otherwise face a fictitious charge. rather surprisingly, fusob suggests using itunes gift cards for payment. also, a timer clicking down on the screen adds to the users’ anxiety as well.
 in order to infect devices, fusob masquerades as a pornographic video player. thus, victims, thinking it is harmless, unwittingly download fusob.[93]
 when fusob is installed, it first checks the language used in the device. if it uses russian or certain eastern european languages, fusob does nothing. otherwise, it proceeds on to lock the device and demand ransom. among victims, about 40% of them are in germany with the united kingdom and the united states following with 14.5% and 11.4% respectively.
 fusob has lots in common with small, which is another major family of mobile  ransomware . they represented over 93% of mobile  ransomware  between 2015 and 2016.
 in may 2017, the  ransomware   ransomware  attack spread through the internet, using an exploit vector named eternalblue, which was allegedly leaked from the u.s. national security agency. the  ransomware  attack, unprecedented in scale,[94] infected more than 230,000 computers in over 150 countries,[95] using 20 different languages to demand money from users using bitcoin cryptocurrency.  ransomware  demanded us$300 per computer.[96] the attack affected telefónica and several other large companies in spain, as well as parts of the british national health service (nhs), where at least 16 hospitals had to turn away patients or cancel scheduled operations,[97] fedex, deutsche bahn, honda,[98] renault, as well as the russian interior ministry and russian telecom megafon.[99] the attackers gave their victims a 7-day deadline from the day their computers got infected, after which the  encryption  files would be deleted.[100]
 petya was first discovered in march 2016; unlike other forms of  encryption   ransomware , the  malware  aimed to infect the master boot record, installing a payload which  encryption  the file tables of the ntfs file system the next time that the infected system boots, blocking the system from booting into windows at all until the ransom is paid. check point reported that despite what it believed to be an innovative evolution in  ransomware  design, it had resulted in relatively-fewer infections than other  ransomware  active around the same time frame.[101]
 on 27 june 2017, a heavily modified version of petya was used for a global cyberattack primarily targeting ukraine (but affecting many countries[102]). this version had been modified to propagate using the same eternalblue exploit that was used by  ransomware . due to another design change, it is also unable to actually unlock a system after the ransom is paid; this led to security analysts speculating that the attack was not meant to generate illicit profit, but to simply cause disruption.[103][104]
 on 24 october 2017, some users in russia and ukraine reported a new  ransomware  attack, named " ransomware ", which follows a similar pattern to  ransomware  and petya by  encryption  the user's file tables and then demands a bitcoin payment to decrypt them. eset believed the  ransomware  to have been distributed by a bogus update to adobe flash software.[105] among agencies that were affected by the  ransomware  were: interfax, odesa international airport, kyiv metro, and the ministry of infrastructure of ukraine.[106] as it used corporate network structures to spread, the  ransomware  was also discovered in other countries, including turkey, germany, poland, japan, south korea, and the united states.[107] experts believed the  ransomware  attack was tied to the petya attack in ukraine (especially because  ransomware 's code has many overlapping and analogical elements to the code of petya/notpetya,[108] appending to crowdstrike  ransomware  and notpetya's dll (dynamic link library) share 67 percent of the same code[109]) though the only identity to the culprits are the names of characters from the game of thrones series embedded within the code.[107]
 security experts found that the  ransomware  did not use the eternalblue exploit to spread, and a simple method to vaccinate an unaffected machine running older windows versions was found by 24 october 2017.[110][111] further, the sites that had been used to spread the bogus flash updating have gone offline or removed the problematic files within a few days of its discovery, effectively killing off the spread of  ransomware .[107]
 in 2016, a new strain of  ransomware  emerged that was targeting jboss servers.[112] this strain, named "samsam", was found to bypass the process of  phishing  or illicit downloads in favor of exploiting vulnerabilities on weak servers.[113] the  malware  uses a remote desktop protocol brute-force attack to guess weak passwords until one is broken. the computer-virus  has been behind attacks on government and healthcare targets, with notable hacks occurring against the town of farmington, new mexico, the colorado department of transportation, davidson county, north carolina, and most recently, a major breach of security on the infrastructure of atlanta.[113]
 mohammad mehdi shah mansouri (born in qom, iran in 1991) and faramarz shahi savandi (born in shiraz, iran, in 1984) are wanted by the fbi for allegedly launching samsam  ransomware .[114] the two have allegedly made $6 million from extortion and caused over $30 million in damages using the  malware .[115]
 syskey is a utility that was included with windows nt-based operating systems to encryption the user account database, optionally with a password. the tool has sometimes been effectively used as  ransomware  during technical support scams—where a caller with remote access to the computer may use the tool to lock the user out of their computer with a password known only to them.[116] syskey was removed from later versions of windows 10 and windows server in 2017, due to being obsolete and "known to be used by hackers as part of  ransomware  scams".[117][118]
 as with other forms of  malware , security software (antivirus software) might not detect a  ransomware  payload, or, especially in the case of  encryption  payloads, only after  encryption  is under way or complete, particularly if a new version unknown to the protective software is distributed.[119] if an attack is suspected or detected in its early stages, it takes some time for  encryption  to take place; immediate removal of the  malware  (a relatively simple process) before it has completed would stop further damage to data, without salvaging any already lost.[120][121]
 security experts have suggested precautionary measures for dealing with  ransomware . using software or other security policies to block known payloads from launching will help to prevent infection, but will not protect against all attacks[24][122] as such, having a proper backup solution is a critical component to defending against  ransomware . note that, because many  ransomware  attackers will not only encryption the victim's live machine but it will also attempt to delete any hot backups stored locally or on accessible over the network on a nas, it's also critical to maintain "offline" backups of data stored in locations inaccessible from any potentially infected computer, such as external storage drives or devices that do not have any access to any network (including the internet), prevents them from being accessed by the  ransomware . moreover, if using a nas or cloud storage, then the computer should have append-only permission to the destination storage, such that it cannot delete or overwrite previous backups.
 installing security updates issued by software vendors can mitigate the vulnerabilities leveraged by certain strains to propagate.[123][124][125][126][127] other measures include cyber hygiene − exercising caution when opening e-mail attachments and links, network segmentation, and keeping critical computers isolated from networks.[128][129] furthermore, to mitigate the spread of  ransomware  measures of infection control can be applied.[130] such may include disconnecting infected machines from all networks, educational programs,[131] effective communication channels,  malware  surveillance[original research?] and ways of collective participation[130]
 a number of file systems keep snapshots of the data they hold, which can be used to recover the contents of files from a time prior to the  ransomware  attack in the event the  ransomware  does not disable it.
 there are a number of tools intended specifically to decrypt files locked by  ransomware , although successful recovery may not be possible.[2][134] if the same  encryption  key is used for all files, decryption tools use files for which there are both uncorrupted backups and  encryption  copies (a known-plaintext attack in the jargon of cryptanalysis. but, it only works when the cipher the attacker used was weak to begin with, being vulnerable to known-plaintext attack); recovery of the key, if it is possible, may take several days.[135] free  ransomware  decryption tools can help decrypt files  encryption  by the following forms of  ransomware : aes_ni, alcatraz locker, apocalypse, badblock, bart, btcware, crypt888, cryptomix, crysis, encryptile, findzip, globe, hidden tear, jigsaw, lambdalocker, legion, noobcrypt, stampado, szflocker, teslacrypt, xdata.[136]
 in addition, old copies of files may exist on the disk, which has been previously deleted. in some cases, these deleted versions may still be recoverable using software designed for that purpose.
  ransomware   malware  has evolved since its beginnings when it was confined to one or two countries in eastern europe which then spread across the atlantic to the united states and canada.[137] the number of cyberattacks during 2020 was double that of 2019.[138] the first versions of this type of  malware  used various techniques to disable the computers[137] by locking the victims system machine (locker  ransomware ) [133]. some examples of how this  ransomware  works, include; locking the screen by displaying a message from a branch of local law enforcement indicating the user's lines like “you have browsed illicit materials and must pay a fine”. they were first seen in russia by year 2009 claiming to be a message from microsoft. they also used to request a payment by sending an sms message to a premium rate number. the next variant displayed pornographic image content and demanded payment for the removal of it.[137]
 in 2011 the tactics changed, the attackers started to use electronic payment methods and they added more languages to the messages which also changed based on the user's location which was obtained by geo-locating the user's ip addresses.[137]
 not only end users are affected by these attacks. corporations, private entities, government, and even hospitals are also affected. for example, in healthcare (although 2015 was the year in which the largest ephi data breaches occurred according to the onc) 2016 was the year that  ransomware  started to increase exponentially in this market. according to the 2017 internet security threat report from symantec corp,  ransomware  affects not only it systems but also patient care, clinical operations, and billing. online criminals have found “there was easy money to be made in healthcare,” according to the symantec report, which was developed with data from insurance claims and the u.s. department of health and human services (hhs).[139]
  ransomware  is growing rapidly across the internet users but also for the iot environment[137] which creates a challenging problem to the infosec while increasing the attack surface area. they are evolving into more sophisticated attacks and, they are becoming more resistant; at the same time, they are also more accessible than ever. today, for a cheap price, the attackers have access to  ransomware  as a service. the big problem is that millions of dollars are lost by some organizations and industries that have decided to pay, such as the hollywood presbyterian medical center and the medstar health.[140] at the end, the pressure to offer services to the patients and keep their lives is so critical that they are forced to pay, and the attacker knows that. the problem here is that by paying the ransom, they are funding the cybercrime.
 according to symantec 2019 istr report, for the first time since 2013, in 2018 there was an observed decrease in  ransomware  activity with a drop of 20 percent. before 2017, consumers were the preferred victims, but in 2017 this changed dramatically, it moved to the enterprises. in 2018 this path accelerated with 81 percent infections which represented a 12 percent increase.[141] the common distribution method today is based on email campaigns.
 the first reported death following a  ransomware  attack was at a german hospital in october 2020.[142]
 cyber awareness training is crucial to detecting attacks, whereas technology cannot protect against careless or foolish behavior.[143] it is important for organizations to help their users recognize malicious contact whereas  ransomware  is typically introduced through email and social engineering techniques to either download a file, provide key sensitive information or take some action that will bring harm to the organization.  according to knowbe4 osterman report, there are number of approaches to security awareness training that are practiced by organizations and managed by security teams. there is the break room approach which are special meetings periodically held  to talk about security; monthly security videos with short snippets of security information; simulated  phishing  tests which target users with internal  phishing  messages; human firewall approach where everyone is subject to simulated  phishing  and those employees that are prone to attack are identified; and then there is the do-nothing approach where cyber awareness training does not exist in the organization.[144]
 an effective and successful cyber awareness training program must be sponsored from the top of the organization with supporting policies and procedures which effectively outline ramifications of non-compliance, frequency of training and a process for acknowledgement of training. without sponsorship from the “c-level” executives the training cannot be ignored.  other factors that are key to a successful cyber awareness training program is to establish a baseline identifying the level of knowledge of the organization to establish where the users are in their knowledge prior to training and after. whichever approach an organization decides to implement, it is important that the organization has policies and procedures in place that provide training that is up to date, performed frequently and has the backing of the entire organization from the top down.
 investment in technology to detect and stop these threats must be maintained, but along with that we need to remember and focus on our weakest link, which is the user.
 a british student zain qaiser (24) from barking, london was jailed for more than six years at kingston crown court for his  ransomware  attacks in 2019.[145] he is said to have been "the most prolific cyber criminal to be sentenced in the uk". he became active when he was only 17. he contacted the russian controller of one of the most powerful attacks, believed to be the lurk  malware  gang, and arranged for a split of his profits. he also contacted online criminals from china and the usa to move the money. for about one and a half years, he posed as a legitimate supplier of online promotions of book advertising on some of the world's most visited legal pornography websites. each of the adverts that was promoted on the websites contained the reveton  ransomware  strain of the malicious angler exploit kit (aek)[146] that seized control of the machine. investigators discovered about £700,000 of earnings, although his network may have earned more than £4m. he may have hidden some money using cryptocurrencies. the  ransomware  would instruct victims to buy greendot moneypak vouchers, and enter the code in the reveton panel displayed on the screen. this money entered a moneypak account managed by qaiser, who would then deposit the voucher payments into an american co-conspirator's debit card—that of raymond odigie uadiale, who was then a student at florida international university during 2012 and 2013 and later worked for microsoft. uadiale would convert the money into liberty reserve digital currency and deposit it into qaiser's liberty reserve account.[147]
 a  breakthrough in this case occurred in may 2013 when authorities from several countries seized the liberty reserve servers, obtaining access to all its transactions and account history. qaiser was running  encryption  virtual machines on his macbook pro with both mac and windows operating systems.[148] he could not be tried earlier because he was sectioned under the uk mental health act at goodmayes hospital (where he was found to be using the hospital wi-fi to access his advertising sites.) his lawyer claimed that qaiser had suffered from mental illness.[149] russian police arrested 50 members of the lurk  malware  gang in june 2016.[150] uadiale, a naturalized us citizen of nigerian descent, was jailed for 18 months.[151]
 the publication of proof-of-concept attack code is common among academic researchers and vulnerability researchers.
it teaches the nature of the threat, conveys the gravity of the issues, and enables countermeasures to be devised and put into place. however, lawmakers with the support of law-enforcement bodies are contemplating making the
creation of  ransomware  illegal. in the state of maryland, the original draft of hb 340 made it a felony to create  ransomware , punishable by up to 10 years in prison.[152] however, this provision was removed from the final version of the bill.[153]
a minor in japan was arrested for creating and distributing  ransomware  code.[154]
young and yung have had the ansi c source code to a  ransomware  crypto spyware  on-line, at cryptovirology.com, since 2005 as part of a cryptovirology book being written. the source code to the crypto spyware  is still live on the internet and is
associated with a draft of chapter 2.[155]
 
 in cryptography,  encryption  is the process of encoding information. this process converts the original representation of the information, known as plaintext, into an alternative form known as ciphertext. ideally, only authorized parties can decipher a ciphertext back to plaintext and access the original information.  encryption  does not itself prevent interference but denies the intelligible content to a would-be interceptor. 
 for technical reasons, an  encryption  scheme usually uses a pseudo-random  encryption  key generated by an algorithm. it is possible to decrypt the message without possessing the key but, for a well-designed  encryption  scheme, considerable computational resources and skills are required. an authorized recipient can easily decrypt the message with the key provided by the originator to recipients but not to unauthorized users. 
 historically, various forms of  encryption  have been used to aid in cryptography. early  encryption  techniques were often utilized in military messaging. since then, new techniques have emerged and become commonplace in all areas of modern computing.[1] modern  encryption  schemes utilize the concepts of public-key and symmetric-key.[1] modern  encryption  techniques ensure security because modern computers are inefficient at cracking the  encryption .
 one of the earliest forms of  encryption  is symbol replacement, which was first found in the tomb of khnumhotep ii, who lived in 1900 b.c. egypt. symbol replacement  encryption  is “non-standard,” which means that the symbols require a cipher or key to understand. this type of early  encryption  was used throughout ancient greece and rome for military purposes.[2]  one of the most famous military  encryption  developments was the caesar cipher, which was a system in which a letter in normal text is shifted down a fixed number of positions down the alphabet to get the encoded letter. a message encoded with this type of  encryption  could be decoded with the fixed number on the caesar cipher.[3]
 around 800 a.d., arab mathematician al-kindi developed the technique of frequency analysis - which was an attempt to systematically crack caesar ciphers.[2] this technique looked at the frequency of letters in the  encryption  message to determine the appropriate shift. this technique was rendered ineffective after the creation of the polyalphabetic cipher by leone alberti in 1465, which incorporated different sets of languages. in order for frequency analysis to be useful, the person trying to decrypt the message would need to know which language the sender chose.[2]
 around 1790, thomas jefferson theorized a cipher to encode and decode messages in order to provide a more secure way of military correspondence. the cipher, known today as the wheel cipher or the jefferson disk, although never actually built, was theorized as a spool that could jumble an english message up to 36 characters. the message could be decrypted by plugging in the jumbled message to a receiver with an identical cipher.[4]
 a similar device to the jefferson disk, the m-94, was developed in 1917 independently by us army major joseph mauborne. this device was used in u.s. military communications until 1942.[5]
 in world war ii, the axis powers used a more advanced version of the m-94 called the enigma machine. the enigma machine was more complex because unlike the jefferson wheel and the m-94, each day the jumble of letters switched to a completely new combination. each day's combination was only known by the axis, so many thought the only way to break the code would be to try over 17,000 combinations within 24 hours.[6] the allies used computing power to severely limit the number of reasonable combinations they needed to check every day, leading to the breaking of the enigma machine.
 today,  encryption  is used in the transfer of communication over the internet for security and commerce.[1] as computing power continues to increase, computer  encryption  is constantly evolving to prevent attacks.[7]
 in the context of cryptography,  encryption  serves as a mechanism to ensure confidentiality.[1] since data may be visible on the internet, sensitive information such as passwords and personal communication may be exposed to potential interceptors.[1]
 the process of  encryption  and decrypting messages involves keys. the two main types of keys in cryptographic systems are symmetric-key and public-key (also known as asymmetric-key).[8][9]
 in symmetric-key schemes,[10] the  encryption  and decryption keys are the same. communicating parties must have the same key in order to achieve secure communication. the german enigma machine utilized a new symmetric-key each day for encoding and decoding messages.
 in public-key  encryption  schemes, the  encryption  key is published for anyone to use and encryption messages. however, only the receiving party has access to the decryption key that enables messages to be read.[11] public-key  encryption  was first described in a secret document in 1973;[12] beforehand, all  encryption  schemes were symmetric-key (also called private-key).[13]:478 although published subsequently, the work of diffie and hellman was published in a journal with a large readership, and the value of the methodology was explicitly described.[14] the method became known as the diffie-hellman key exchange.
 rsa (rivest–shamir–adleman) is another notable public-key cryptosystem. created in 1978, it is still used today for applications involving digital signatures.[citation needed] using number theory, the rsa algorithm selects two prime numbers, which help generate both the  encryption  and decryption keys.[15]
 a publicly available public-key  encryption  application called pretty good privacy (pgp) was written in 1991 by phil zimmermann, and distributed free of charge with source code. pgp was purchased by symantec in 2010 and is regularly updated.[16]
  encryption  has long been used by militaries and governments to facilitate secret communication. it is now commonly used in protecting information within many kinds of civilian systems. for example, the computer security institute reported that in 2007, 71% of companies surveyed utilized  encryption  for some of their data in transit, and 53% utilized  encryption  for some of their data in storage.[17]  encryption  can be used to protect data "at rest", such as information stored on computers and storage devices (e.g. usb flash drives). in recent years, there have been numerous reports of confidential data, such as customers' personal records, being exposed through loss or theft of laptops or backup drives;  encryption  such files at rest helps protect them if physical security measures fail.[18][19][20] digital rights management systems, which prevent unauthorized use or reproduction of copyrighted material and protect software against reverse engineering (see also copy protection), is another somewhat different example of using  encryption  on data at rest.[21]
  encryption  is also used to protect data in transit, for example data being transferred via networks (e.g. the internet, e-commerce), mobile telephones, wireless microphones, wireless intercom systems, bluetooth devices and bank automatic teller machines. there have been numerous reports of data in transit being intercepted in recent years.[22] data should also be  encryption  when transmitted across networks in order to protect against eavesdropping of network traffic by unauthorized users.[23]
 conventional methods for permanently deleting data from a storage device involve overwriting the device's whole content with zeros, ones, or other patterns – a process which can take a significant amount of time, depending on the capacity and the type of storage medium. cryptography offers a way of making the erasure almost instantaneous. this method is called crypto-shredding. an example implementation of this method can be found on ios devices, where the cryptographic key is kept in a dedicated 'effaceable storage'.[24] because the key is stored on the same device, this setup on its own does not offer full privacy or security protection if an unauthorized person gains physical access to the device.
  encryption  is used in the 21st century to protect digital data and information systems. as computing power increased over the years,  encryption  technology has only become more advanced and secure. however, this advancement in technology has also exposed a potential limitation of today's  encryption  methods.
 the length of the  encryption  key is an indicator of the strength of the  encryption  method.[citation needed] for example, the original  encryption  key, des (data  encryption  standard), was 56 bits, meaning it had 2^56 combination possibilities. with today's computing power, a 56-bit key is no longer secure, being vulnerable to hacking by brute force attack.[citation needed] today the standard of modern  encryption  keys is up to 2048 bit with the rsa system.[25] decrypting a 2048 bit  encryption  key is nearly impossible in light of the number of possible combinations. however, quantum computing is threatening to change this secure nature.
 quantum computing utilizes properties of quantum mechanics in order to process large amounts of data simultaneously. quantum computing has been found to achieve computing speeds thousands of times faster than today's supercomputers.[citation needed] this computing power presents a challenge to today's  encryption  technology. for example, rsa  encryption  utilizes the multiplication of very large prime numbers to create a semiprime number for its public key. decoding this key without its private key requires this semiprime number to be factored in, which can take a very long time to do with modern computers. it would take a supercomputer anywhere between weeks to months to factor in this key.[citation needed]
 however, quantum computing can use quantum algorithms to factor this semiprime number in the same amount of time it takes for normal computers to generate it.[citation needed] this would make all data protected by current public-key  encryption  vulnerable to quantum computing attacks. other  encryption  techniques like elliptic curve cryptography and symmetric key  encryption  are also vulnerable to quantum computing.[citation needed]
 while quantum computing could be a threat to  encryption  security in the future, quantum computing as it currently stands is still very limited. quantum computing currently is not commercially available, cannot handle large amounts of code, and only exists as computational devices, not computers.[26] furthermore, quantum computing advancements will be able to be utilized in favor of  encryption  as well. the national security agency (nsa) is currently preparing post-quantum  encryption  standards for the future.[27] quantum  encryption  promises a level of security that will be able to counter the threat of quantum computing.[26]
  encryption  is an important tool but is not sufficient alone to ensure the security or privacy of sensitive information throughout its lifetime. most applications of  encryption  protect information only at rest or in transit, leaving sensitive data in clear text and potentially vulnerable to improper disclosure during processing, such as by a cloud service for example. homomorphic  encryption  and secure multi-party computation are emerging techniques to compute on  encryption  data; these techniques are general and turing complete but incur high computational and/or communication costs.
 in response to  encryption  of data at rest, cyber-adversaries have developed new types of attacks. these more recent threats to  encryption  of data at rest include cryptographic attacks,[28] stolen ciphertext attacks,[29] attacks on  encryption  keys,[30] insider attacks, data corruption or integrity attacks,[31] data destruction attacks, and  ransomware  attacks. data fragmentation[32] and active defense[33] data protection technologies attempt to counter some of these attacks, by distributing, moving, or mutating ciphertext so it is more difficult to identify, steal, corrupt, or destroy.[34]
  encryption , by itself, can protect the confidentiality of messages, but other techniques are still needed to protect the integrity and authenticity of a message; for example, verification of a message authentication code (mac) or a digital signature. authenticated  encryption  algorithms are designed to provide both  encryption  and integrity protection together. standards for cryptographic software and hardware to perform  encryption  are widely available, but successfully using  encryption  to ensure security may be a challenging problem. a single error in system design or execution can allow successful attacks. sometimes an adversary can obtain un encryption  information without directly undoing the  encryption . see for example traffic analysis, tempest, or  spyware  horse.[35]
 integrity protection mechanisms such as macs and digital signatures must be applied to the ciphertext when it is first created, typically on the same device used to compose the message, to protect a message end-to-end along its full transmission path; otherwise, any node between the sender and the  encryption  agent could potentially tamper with it.  encryption  at the time of creation is only secure if the  encryption  device itself has correct keys and has not been tampered with. if an endpoint device has been configured to trust a root certificate that an attacker controls, for example, then the attacker can both inspect and tamper with  encryption  data by performing a man-in-the-middle attack anywhere along the message's path. the common practice of tls interception by network operators represents a controlled and institutionally sanctioned form of such an attack, but countries have also attempted to employ such attacks as a form of control and censorship.[36]
 even when  encryption  correctly hides a message's content and it cannot be tampered with at rest or in transit, a message's length is a form of metadata that can still leak sensitive information about the message. for example, the well-known crime and breach attacks against https were side-channel attacks that relied on information leakage via the length of  encryption  content.[37] traffic analysis is a broad class of techniques that often employs message lengths to infer sensitive implementation about traffic flows by aggregating information about a large number of messages.
 padding a message's payload before  encryption  it can help obscure the cleartext's true length, at the cost of increasing the ciphertext's size and introducing or increasing bandwidth overhead. messages may be padded randomly or deterministically, with each approach having different tradeoffs.  encryption  and padding messages to form padded uniform random blobs or purbs is a practice guaranteeing that the cipher text leaks no metadata about its cleartext's content, and leaks asymptotically minimal 



o
(
log
⁡
log
⁡
m
)


{\displaystyle o(\log \log m)}

 information via its length.[38]
 