a text-message scam that infects android phones is spreading across the uk, experts have warned. the message - which pretends to be from a package delivery firm, prompts users to install a tracking app - but is actually a malicious piece of spyware. called flubot, it can take over devices and spy on phones to gather sensitive data, including online banking details. network operator vodafone said millions of the text messages were already being sent, across all networks. "we believe this current wave of flubot malware sms attacks will gain serious traction very quickly, and it's something that needs awareness to stop the spread," a spokesman said.  customers should "be especially vigilant with this particular piece of malware", he said, and be very careful about clicking on any links in a text message.  other networks, including ee and three, followed with warnings of their own. the national cyber security centre (ncsc) later issued guidance about the threat, including advice on what to do if you have already downloaded the attacker's application by mistake. "if users have clicked a malicious link it's important not to panic - there are actionable steps they can take to protect their devices and their accounts," the ncsc said in a statement. the malware also has the ability to send more text messages to an infected user's contacts, helping it spread.  "the seriousness of these malicious text messages is underlined by vodafone making the decision to alert its customers," said ben wood, chief analyst at ccs insight. "this has the potential to become a denial-of-service attack on mobile networks, given the clear risk that a rogue application can be installed on users' smartphones and start spewing out endless text messages.  "the broader risk for users is a loss of highly sensitive personal data from their phones," he added. fresh warnings over royal mail parcel scamex-police officer 'devastated' by £3k text scamfake nhs vaccine messages sent in banking scam while text message scams claiming to be about a package delivery firm are common, they have mostly focused on phishing - trying to trick the user into filling in a form with bank details and other information. this newest wave differs because it tries to install malicious software on the phone itself - and because of the scale of its spread.  one version of the scam reported online pretends to be a text message from dhl, with a link to a website for parcel tracking. if someone using an android phone clicks on the link, they will be taken to a page "explaining" how to install the parcel tracking app using something called an apk. apk files are a way of installing android apps outside of the secure google play store. by default, such applications will be blocked for security reasons, but the scam page includes instructions on how to allow the installation. that can be confusing, as there are some niche genuine cases for installing those kind of apps - such as downloading the fortnite video game, which was removed from the official app store amid a major legal row between its owner and google.  apple iphone users are not affected as those phones cannot install android apks. in a blog post detailing the scam, security researcher paul morrison wrote that he expects the "success rate would be low" due to the hurdles involved. but he said: "with the number of sms being sent out, just a 0.1% success rate could be very profitable." the flubot malware has also spread in other countries in recent months - notably spain, germany and poland. kate bevan, computing editor at consumer magazine which? said people have to be "wary" of texts.  "if you're not sure, contact the delivery company's official customer service helpline," she said. "as ever, it's important to make sure that your mobile phone is up to date with security patches. consider also installing mobile security software from a trusted brand." industry body mobile uk said users who receive a suspicious message should forward it to 7726 to report it, a spokesman said - and then delete the message. the unprecedented hacking of celebrity twitter accounts this month was caused by human error and a spear-phishing attack on twitter employees, the company has confirmed. spear-phishing is a targeted attack designed to trick people into handing out information such as passwords. twitter said its staff were targeted through their phones. the successful attempt let attackers tweet from celebrity accounts and access their private direct messages. the accounts of microsoft founder bill gates, democratic presidential hopeful joe biden and reality star kim kardashian west were compromised, and shared a bitcoin scam. it reportedly netted the scammers more than $100,000 (£80,000). the attack has raised concerns about the level of access that twitter employees, and subsequently the hackers, have to user accounts. twitter acknowledged that concern in its statement, saying that it was "taking a hard look" at how it could improve its permissions and processes. "access to these tools is strictly limited and is only granted for valid business reasons," the company said. not all the employees targeted in the spear-phishing attack had access to the in-house tools, twitter said - but they did have access to the internal network and other systems. once the attackers had acquired user credentials to let them inside twitter's network, the next stage of their attack was much easier. they targeted other employees who had access to account controls. by joe tidy, cyber-security reporter twitter isn't clarifying whether or not their employees were duped by an email or a phone call. the consensus in the information security community is that it was the latter.  phonecall spear-phishing, commonly known as vishing, is bread and butter for the sort of hackers who are suspected of this attack.  the criminals obtained the phone numbers of a handful of twitter staff and, by using friendly persuasion and trickery, got them to hand over usernames and passwords that gave them an initial foothold into the internal system. twitter hack: what went wrong and why it mattersfbi investigates major twitter hack as twitter puts it, the scammers "exploited human vulnerabilities". you can imagine how it possibly went:  hacker to twitter employee: "hi, i'm new to the department and i've locked myself out of the twitter internal portal, can you do me a huge favour and give me the login again?" the fact that twitter staff were susceptible to these basic attacks is embarrassing for a company built on being at the forefront of digital technology and internet culture.  twitter said the initial spear-phishing attempt happened on 15 july - the same day the accounts were compromised, suggesting the accounts were accessed within hours. "this attack relied on a significant and concerted attempt to mislead certain employees and exploit human vulnerabilities to gain access to our internal systems," the company said. "this was a striking reminder of how important each person on our team is in protecting our service." twitter did not state whether the attack involved voice calls, despite a previous report from bloomberg stating that at least one twitter employee was contacted by attackers through a phone call. phishing is most commonly done by email and text message, encouraging recipients to click on links that take them to websites with fake log-in screens. spear-phishing is a version of the scam targeted at one person or a specific company, and is usually heavily customised to make it more believable. one victim whose account was compromised told the bbc there were several things twitter could have done differently. "they shouldn't give the ability to a single employee to remove both email address on file and two-factor authentication," they said. "i understand why there's a need for this - for example if a dormant account has a very old email that's inaccessible and you've lost your phone or something-  but it should require two employees to sign off." they also said communication from twitter was poor. "it took 10 days to reset this account with no actual personal response from twitter. i literally got a 'click here to continue' automated email from their system when they added my email back to the account to allow me to reset it - and it looked like a phishing email." a nigerian businessman, who once appeared on the cover of forbes magazine, has been jailed for 10 years in the us over a cyber fraud scam that led to the theft of about $11m (£8m).  obinwanne okeke, also known as invictus obi, used nigerian-based companies to defraud people in the us. his companies used phishing emails to steal funds from victims. in 2016 forbes africa listed okeke among the most influential businesspeople under the age of 30. from around 2015 to 2019, he was part of a group which engaged in a conspiracy to conduct various computer-based frauds, including creating fake websites, the us attorney's office in the eastern district of virginia said in a statement after he was sentenced. it added that the 33-year-old, who was arrested two years ago, used "subterfuge and impersonation" to lure his victims.  africa live: stories from across the continent why nigerian cyber fraudsters are 'role models''we nigerians are not all criminals' okeke's invictus group companies were also accused of working with conspirators to create profiles of hundreds of victims including people in the us's eastern district of virginia. in one phishing attack in 2018 the fraudsters managed to gain access to the email of a manager at unatrac holding limited, the export sales office for caterpillar's heavy industrial and farm equipment. they made fraudulent wire transfers to the value of nearly $11m, and moved the funds overseas.  okeke's sentencing demonstrated the us authorities' determination to pursue international cybercriminals no matter where they committed their crimes, said the statement from the attorney's office in the eastern district of virginia.  computing giant microsoft recently put out a report claiming that businesses globally are neglecting a key aspect of their cyber-security - the need to protect computers, servers and other devices from firmware attacks. its survey of 1,000 cyber-security decision makers at enterprises across multiple industries in the uk, us, germany, japan and china has revealed that 80% of firms have experienced at least one firmware attack in the past two years.  yet only 29% of security budgets have been allocated to protect firmware. however, the new report comes on the back of a recent significant security vulnerability affecting microsoft's widely-used exchange email system. and the computing giant launched a range of extra-secure windows 10 computers last year that it says will prevent firmware from being tampered with. so is this just an attempt to divert attention and sell more pcs, or should businesses be more worried? firmware is a type of permanent software code used to control each hardware component in a pc.  increasingly, cyber-criminals are designing malware that quietly tampers with the firmware in motherboards, which tell the pc to start up, or with the firmware in hardware drivers. this is a sneaky way to neatly bypass a computer's operating system or any software designed to detect malware, because the firmware code is in the hardware, which is a layer below the operating system. microsoft hack: 3,000 uk email servers unsecuredhundreds of uk firms hacked in global cyber-crisiscyber-flaw affects 745,000 pacemakers security experts have told the bbc that even if it departments are following cyber-security best practices like patching security vulnerabilities in software, or protecting corporate networks from malicious intrusions, many firms are still forgetting about the firmware. "people don't think about it in terms of their patching - it's not often updated, and when it is, sometimes it breaks things," explains australian cyber-security researcher robert potter.  mr potter built the washington post's cyber-security operations centre and has advised the australian government on cyber-security. "firmware patching can sometimes be tricky, so for a lot of companies, it's become a blind spot." there have been several major firmware attacks discovered in the last two years, such as robbinhood, a ransomware that uses firmware to gain root access to a victim's computer and then encrypts all files until a bitcoin ransom has been paid. this malware held the data of several us city governments hostage in may 2019.  another example is thunderspy, an attack that utilises the direct memory access (dma) function that pc hardware components use to talk to each other. this attack is so stealthy that an attacker can read and copy all data on a computer without leaving a trace, and the attack is possible even if the hard drive is encrypted, the computer is locked, or set to sleep. "if device firmware has no protection in place, or if the protection can be bypassed, then firmware compromise is both incredibly serious and potentially invisible," explains chris boyd, a malware intelligence analyst at security firm malwarebytes.   "remote or physical compromise which permits rogue code to run can set the stage for data theft, system damage, spying, and more." the good news is that firmware attacks are less likely to target consumers, but big firms should beware, according to gabriel cirlig, a security researcher with us cyber-security firm human (formerly white ops). "it is a big deal, but fortunately it only works against big organisations, because you need to target specific types of motherboards and firmware," he tells the bbc. typically, cyber-criminals tend to attack operating systems and popular software, because they only make money if they can infect the biggest numbers of end users.  firmware attacks are less common and more complicated to implement than other types of cyber-attacks, but unfortunately the coronavirus pandemic has accelerated the problem.  the national institute of standards and technology (nist), an agency within the us department of commerce, continually updates a national vulnerability database (nvd) with new security flaws. the database has recorded a five-fold increase in attacks against firmware in the last four years. coronavirus lockdowns in multiple countries have led to multiple employees working from home and connecting remotely to work servers. each one of those computers and mobile devices is an opportunity.  carrying out a firmware attack might be complex, says mr cirlig, but if attackers could silently steal critical information from a c-suite executive's laptop, like passwords, they could then use it to infiltrate a company's networks and steal more data.  nation-state hackers would be most likely to use such an attack, he adds. "this is a big operation with big pay-offs - it's not something that a small group of cyber-criminals has the manpower to do." although firmware attacks are not as ubiquitous as phishing scams, malware or other cyber-attacks, the cyber-security experts the bbc spoke to say now is the time for businesses, and the technology industry as a whole, to pay attention to hardware security. "firmware attacks are not common on a day-to-day basis, but that's because people don't realise they're being infected by such an attack," says mr boyd.  "it's like when ransomware first came onto the scene - people didn't know of anyone who was infected by it, and if big organisations were, they wouldn't tell anyone about it, as there was an element of shame, not wanting their clients to know they'd been infected." mr boyd adds that a new generation of "budding hardware enthusiasts" who have been learning their way around firmware by "modding video game consoles over the last decade" could well pose additional threats to enterprise cyber-security going forward - a point mt cirlig fervently agrees with, since he hacked the firmware in his own car when he was younger.  "microsoft is right to raise this as a major issue, because we need to bring firmware designers and operational technologies along the journey of cyber-security, the way we have with software companies," says mr potter.  "as we connect more things to the internet, we're connecting a lot more devices that haven't been designed with cyber-security in mind. and if the trend continues, bad guys will go after it." police have warned students in the uk against using a website that they say lets users "illegally access" millions of scientific research papers. the city of london police's intellectual property crime unit says using the sci-hub website could "pose a threat" to students' personal data. the police are concerned that users of the "russia-based website" could have information taken and misused online. the sci-hub website says it "removes all barriers" to science. it offers open access to more than 85 million scientific papers and claims that copyright laws should be abolished and that such material should be "knowledge to all". it describes itself as "the first pirate website in the world to provide mass and public access to tens of millions of research papers". but max bruce, the city of london police's cyber protection officer, has urged universities to block the website on their networks because of the "threat posed by sci-hub to both the university and its students". "if you're tricked into revealing your log-in credentials, whether it's through the use of fake emails or malware, we know that sci-hub will then use those details to compromise your university's computer network in order to steal research papers," he said. the city of london police, which is the national lead for fraud, has warned that students studying online at home might be vulnerable. "students should be aware that accessing such websites is illegal, as it hosts stolen intellectual property," said det insp kevin ives. he warned that visitors to the website, whose twitter account has been suspended, are "very vulnerable to having their credentials stolen". the police warning says scientific papers could have been obtained by a "variety of malicious means, such as the use of phishing emails to trick university staff and students into divulging their login credentials". but the sci-hub website has previously told the bbc that it provides students with access to research papers for which the subscriptions are "very expensive". andrew pitts, chief executive of the psi registry, which highlights "academic piracy", has warned that users "may inadvertently download potentially dangerous content from this illegal site and put the security of their organisations at risk". the national cyber security centre, part of the gchq intelligence service, has warned of the threat of cyber-attacks against universities. last autumn the cyber-agency warned of online attacks attempting to "derail" the start of the academic year in universities. scam attempts by fraudsters masquerading as the uk's tax authority surged as potential victims completed tax returns while staying at home. con-artists attempted to take advantage of the self-assessment filing deadline at the end of january to flood people with fake texts, emails and calls. they posed as hm revenue and customs (hmrc) officials and attempted to steal personal financial details. phone scam reports to hmrc tripled compared with december, it said. there were a total of 33,053 reports in january, in addition to 46,210 phishing emails, and 26,643 suspicious text messages during the same month. the number of bogus text message reports was twice the next highest level seen during any month of the last year. most of these scam messages offered bogus tax rebates, fake support or grants, or threatened legal action over unpaid tax. a new scam involved criminals calling people saying that their national insurance number had been used fraudulently. this was a lie. an hmrc spokesman said: "if someone calls, emails or texts claiming to be from hmrc, saying that you can claim financial help, are due a tax refund or owe tax, or asks for bank or other personal details, it might be a scam.  "if you can't verify the identity of the caller, hmrc recommends that you do not speak to them." fee-paying schools were targeted in a cyber attack which accessed parents' email addresses, it has emerged. fraudulent emails sent from school accounts offered a 25% discount on fees for paying quickly via the bitcoin cryptocurrency. newcastle's royal grammar school warned parents of the "sophisticated attack". it has been approached for comment.  the information commissioner's office (ico) said other schools had been targeted and it was investigating. in an email to parents, the grammar school's headmaster, john fern, said it had reported the attack to police. because of the "potential breach of data" in the use of parent's email contacts, it is also liaising with the ico. this is required under the general data protection regulation.  the emails, which included spelling, grammatical and punctuation errors, were sent on 29 december from the address of the school's bursar, who is responsible for fees. the school told parents it was working with the company that provides its email systems, isams, to "establish exactly what happened". isams said it would be issuing a statement. mr fern told parents the school would "never ask for money or bank details in this way" and apologised. no financial details were accessed, he added.  the ico did not provide details of how many schools were affected but said: "[we are] aware of other phishing type attacks that have been targeted towards schools.  "royal grammar school has made us aware of an incident and we will assess the information provided." energy firm npower has closed down its app following an attack that exposed some customers' financial and personal information. contact details, birth dates, addresses and partial bank account numbers are among details believed stolen. the firm did not say how many accounts were affected by the breach, which was first reported by moneysavingexpert.com. but the affected accounts had been locked, npower told the bbc. "we identified suspicious cyber-activity affecting the npower mobile app, where someone has accessed customer accounts using login data stolen from another website. this is known as 'credential stuffing'," the firm said in a statement. "we've contacted all affected customers to make them aware of the issue, encouraging them to change their passwords and offering advice on how to prevent unauthorised access to their online account." it also advised customers to change passwords on other accounts if using the same one. it added that the mobile app had already been due to be shut down as part of wind-down plans following npower's acquisition by eon. the information commissioner's office confirmed that it had been informed about the hack. "npower has made us aware of an incident affecting their app and we are making enquiries," the ico told the bbc. it is not clear when the attack took place, but moneysavingexpert said it had seen an email sent to customers at the beginning of the month warning that their accounts had been locked. action fraud advised customers to keep an eye out for potential phishing emails and to monitor their bank accounts for suspicious activity. police have seized thousands of computers running one of the most dangerous hacking networks worldwide. the emotet network obtains access to victims' computers, via malicious email attachments, then sells it to criminals who install more dangerous malware. police from the uk, eu, us and canada worked together to "disrupt" emotet. europol called it "one of most significant botnets of the past decade" and one of the main "door openers" for computer systems worldwide. "once this unauthorised access was established, these were sold to other top-level criminal groups to deploy further illicit activities such data theft and extortion through ransomware," it said. dmitry smilyanets, from recorded future, said: "even if the creator and his support and operators are not arrested, they likely will not try to rebuild. "they have enough cash to retire in peace - or start a new criminal adventure. "a working botnet is a very complicated and gentle system. "if more than a half of the infrastructure is not working, it's safe to say bye-bye." emotet was initially a banking trojan, designed to spy on victims' computers and steal login details. victims would receive an apparently important word document marked for their attention.  when opened, it would ask them to "enable macros" - a seemingly innocent feature built into microsoft word that actually opened their computer up to attackers. lotem finkelstein, of check point software, said it had been tracking emotet for years. "the most successful and prevalent malware of 2020 by a long way", he said, it had, over the course of the year, sent phishing emails with more than 150,000 different subject lines and 100,000 file names for the attachments. "it constantly adjusted its phishing emails to victims' interests and global events - for example, the covid-19 pandemic or major shopping seasons such as black friday," mr finkelstein said. and although the europol announcement may seem "abstract", it would protect "the public from cyber-threats that have caused losses of millions, if not more, of dollars".  a computer hacker who sold the personal data of thousands of people on the dark web faces jail after admitting a string of offences.  police began investigating grant west, 26, after he conned details from just eat customers in 2015. the personal data of around 165,000 people was compromised. detectives later found he had 63,000 credit and debit card details - and seized more than £500,000 in bitcoins belonging to west. he admitted charges including conspiracy to commit fraud, computer misuse, and drug offences. west, from the isle of sheppey in kent, used "phishing" emails to extract customer data from various companies.  between july 2015 and december 2015 he targeted online food delivery firm just eat, using a scam in which customers received a bogus email offering a voucher in return for answering questions about the service.  the emails allowed west to harvest information - including customers' names, addresses and payment card details - in order to sell to other criminals. there is no suggestion that just eat's own computer systems were hacked or compromised.  detectives believe he targeted customers of just about every major online vendor, from "argos to uber", as part of his criminal enterprise, using millions of email addresses to indiscriminately trick people into revealing their financial information. once he had a complete set of customer details he would sell them on via the now-defunct online dark web market alpha bay, with the user name "courvoisier". the details were sold as "fullz" - a slang term on the dark web used to describe a full set of customer details that would allow others to defraud individual bank accounts and credit cards.  the courvoisier account sold details belonging to 9,627 people - many of whom lost significant amounts to other online fraudsters. police say west made more than £180,000 from the scam. the proceeds from his business were converted into bitcoins and stored in multiple accounts.  the just eat phishing scam cost the firm more than £200,000 - but also gave specialist detectives from london's metropolitan police their first lead. west used his girlfriend's laptop and police traced the computer via a series of ip addresses, despite his best efforts to cover his digital tracks. as detectives moved in on west they realised that getting their hands on the laptop with his "fingers on the keyboard" was crucial.  a team of covert officers tracked west and while he was using the computer in the first class carriage on a train from rhyl to london officers pounced on him, seizing the unlocked computer.  the arrest was captured on the train's cctv. on the laptop they found the financial information of more than 100,000 people.      officers also raided west's home address and found an sd card with the details of 63,000 debit and credit cards, seven million email addresses with passwords, and the details of more than 500 companies - all the components required to commit mass online fraud. they also seized £25,000 in cash and half a kilogram of cannabis.  as well as financial information, west also sold cannabis online - which he shipped to customers - and "how to" guides for fellow hackers.  police say west treated his fraudulent activity as a "day job", sometimes spending 18 hours a day hacking financial information and doing online deals.  at first sight his lifestyle was simple - the family home was a caravan in a residential park - but west funded luxury holidays and goods with stolen credit card details.  his former girlfriend, rachael brookes, 26, from north wales, also enjoyed the cash generated by the frauds. at one point using stolen details to buy a new bikini.  she was sentenced on wednesday to a community order after pleading guilty to unauthorised access of computer material. his honour judge michael gledhill qc told ms brookes that she was "very fortunate indeed" not to be jailed and said of her relationship with west that she had "fallen into the arms of a villain and a rogue". west has no formal qualifications and, although he directed the frauds, investigators believe he was working with others. bitcoin "wallets" belonging to west were emptied the day after he was arrested. at current prices those bitcoins are estimated to be worth £1.5m.  detective chief superintendent michael gallagher - who led the investigation - said police were "uncovering the darkness and shady areas" where criminals operate on the dark web, and were "bringing them into the light".   "there was a myth that bitcoin in particular, and crypto-currencies more generally, was anonymous and it was also a myth that people can operate with impunity on the dark web and remain anonymous," he said. a spokesperson for just eat said "we were made aware of a phishing scam which took place in 2015 and at the time took steps to mitigate this… at no point were just eat systems compromised or breached. "protecting our brand and our customers from online fraud is of utmost importance to us."  west will be sentenced on 25 may. correction 19 september 2018: this article has been amended to remove any suggestion that just eat's own computer systems were hacked or compromised. a computer hacker found with the personal data of about 165,000 people and described as a "one man cyber crime wave" has been jailed. grant west, 26, from sheerness in kent, sent "phishing" emails pretending to be from just eat and extracted the details of 63,000 credit and debit cards. he admitted charges including conspiracy to commit fraud, computer misuse, and drug offences on 2 may.  judge michael gledhill jailed west for 10 years and eight months. west carried out cyber attacks on high street names including sainsbury's, asda, uber, argos and bookmakers ladbrokes and coral to obtain email addresses. between july 2015 and december 2015 he sent customers scam emails masquerading as takeaway service just east, offering a voucher in return for answering questions. once he had a complete set of customer details he would sell them on via the now-defunct online dark web market alpha bay. the prosecution said a total of £84,000 was taken fraudulently from accounts held at barclays, costing the bank more than £300,000 to remedy. british airways also suffered a £400,000 loss after avios accounts were hacked.  the judge described west as "a one man cyber crime wave" and said £1.6m worth of cryptocurrency, which he made selling people's information on the dark web, is unaccounted for. he said: "when such inadequate security is confronted with a criminal of your skills and ambition it is totally unfit for purpose and worthless. "this case should be a wake-up call to customers, companies and the computer industry to the very real threat of cyber crime."  the met police said west made more than £180,000 from the scam with the proceeds being converted into bitcoins and stored in multiple accounts.  the just eat phishing scam cost the firm more than £200,000, but there was no suggestion its own computer systems had been hacked or compromised, the court heard. west used his girlfriend's laptop on which police found the financial information of more than 100,000 people.      when officers raided west's home address they found an sd card with the details of 63,000 debit and credit cards. it also contained seven million email addresses with passwords, and the details of more than 500 companies. police also seized £25,000 in cash, more than £500,000 in bitcoins and half a kilogram of cannabis. west's former girlfriend, rachael brookes, 26, from north wales, was given a community order after pleading guilty to unauthorised access of computer material. a woman who received a fake email offering her a coronavirus vaccination has criticised "horrible" fraudsters for preying on the vulnerable. kelly davies, from emsworth, hampshire, said the email asking for her personal information looked genuine. according to investigators action fraud, there has been a huge increase in phishing scams in the last week. the nhs said the vaccine was free of charge and it would never ask a patient for their bank account details. the email, which has been reported more than 1,000 times in 24 hours, asks the recipient to click on a link if they want to receive the vaccine.  they are then asked to input their bank card details. ms davies, 42, said she was "sceptical" about the email as she knew people at higher risk than herself would be contacted first. she added: "it looked very much legitimate, with the nhs logos, and the government site logos, as you'd expect.  "it's quite worrying and there'll be people sat at home that are waiting and who need that vaccination.  "for people to prey on those individuals is awful. it's a horrible thing and people just shouldn't be doing that." pauline smith, head of action fraud, said: "it's despicable that fraudsters will take advantage of such an important tool in the fight against this evil and deadly disease.  "not only are the people being targeted with this email at risk of losing money, or having their identity stolen, but they are also at risk of not receiving the real vaccine." she said the public needed to "remain cautious and alert". ask for bank account or card detailsask for a pin or banking passwordarrive unannounced at homes to administer the vaccineask for copies of personal documents such as passports, driving licences, bills or payslips source: nhs dr nikki kanani, gp and nhs medical director for primary care, said the excitement around the vaccine had brought out the "cheats, crooks and con-people looking to make money from this life-saving programme". "the vaccine will always be free on the nhs," she added. an nhs spokeswoman said patients were normally contacted by post, via the national booking system, regarding vaccine appointments.  they may also be contacted by the local gp practice by telephone or text message, she added.  det sgt marcus mills, based at the economic crime unit at hampshire constabulary, said: "sadly, despite being in a worldwide pandemic, criminals continue to seek and exploit vulnerable people with phishing email scams." he said residents should not click on any links within an email "unless it is from a trusted source - regardless of how genuine the email may look".  "fraudsters are able to use sophisticated techniques and email address masking to make the email appear genuine," he explained. "to protect yourself, you always click on the senders details of the email and this will allow recipients to see the full email address of the sender.  "you can then make a decision as to whether you believe this to be a genuine email address or not." a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exerciselook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreakstress: how to look after your mental health customer and staff data has been "compromised" in a security breach of a social housing provider's it system.   flagship group, based in norwich, said the cyber attack on 1 november took "most of our group's systems offline".  it said the incident had been caused by a suspected phishing or ransomware attack. it said it had closed down its online systems while it was investigated, and had reported the breach to police and the information commissioner's office. on its website it said: "despite our quick action, there has been some data encryption and some personal customer and staff data has been compromised. "we do not yet have a complete picture of all the data that has been encrypted." the company also said it had "a high level of security measures" in place to protect data. flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. chief executive david mcquade apologised to tenants affected by the breach and those experiencing delays in having repairs carried out. "we are now working towards the recovery of all our systems," he said. "the incident has caused considerable disruption to our staff and customer services and we are concentrating on emergency situations, to ensure our customers are safe." the firm said the matter had also been reported to the regulator of social housing. norfolk police said it was being dealt with by the national cyber security centre. the information commissioner's office (ico) confirmed it had been informed. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk police have warned the public to be vigilant after a 74-year-old dundee woman lost £140,000 in a telephone "phishing" fraud. tayside residents have been targeted by callers pretending to be from their banks or other business companies. victims are encouraged to either transfer money to another account or provide personal banking details. a 75-year-old montrose man was also persuaded to transfer £74,000 into other accounts. police said his bank managed to retrieve the money. the dundee pensioner was called by criminals who claimed to be from her bank's fraud department. police said the bank is currently attempting retrieve the six-figure sum. in a third case, a pensioner from kinross lost £5,000 after being called by a person claiming to work for bt, who said her computer had been hacked and persuaded her to hand over her bank details. a police scotland spokesman said: "police would advise residents to be alert to any phone call they receive from a person claiming to be from a bank, financial institution, business company either asking for money to be transferred or asking for a phone call to be made to the bank.  "do not provide any of your details. "if you do decide to call the bank, where possible call from a different phone line or mobile number.  "if in doubt, ask the caller to put a stop on your account and attend your branch in person." a canadian university says staffers unwittingly lost $9.5m (c$11.8m; £7.5m) in an online phishing scam. fraudulent emails convinced staff at macewan university that one of its clients was changing its bank account details. staff then paid money into the fraudulently created account. the university, in edmonton, alberta, is auditing its business practices. police have traced most of the funds to accounts in hong kong and montreal, but no charges have been laid. the scam came to light when the real client complained of non-payment. "there is never a good time for something like this to happen," university spokesperson david beharry said in a statement. "as our students come back to start the new academic year, we want to assure them and the community that our it systems were not compromised during this incident." what is phishing? phishing is a common type of internet fraud where scammers send emails that appear to be from a reputable company, enticing people to give up personal information. mr beharry also said the university was working to ensure that this fraud would not impact future educational or business operations. an internal review is expected to make recommendations on ways the school can prevent this from happening again. a preliminary audit found that protocols around changing banking information were "inadequate" and staff missed a number of opportunities to identify the fraud. cyber-thieves grab almost 250,000 valid log-in names and passwords for google accounts every week, suggests research. the study by google and uc berkeley looked at the ways email and other accounts get hijacked.  it used 12 months of log-in and account data found on websites and criminal forums or which had been harvested by hacking tools. google said the research helped secure accounts by showing how people fell victim to scammers and hackers. during the 12 months studying the underground markets, the researchers identified more than 788,000 credentials stolen via keyloggers, 12 million grabbed via phishing and 1.9 billion from breaches at other companies. phishing involves attempts to trick people into handing over personal information and keyloggers are programs that record every key someone presses when using a computer. the most useful information for cyber-thieves came from keyloggers and phishing attacks as these included valid passwords in 12%-25% of attacks, it found. phishing attacks posed the biggest risk to users as these helped malicious hackers scoop up about 234,000 valid names and passwords every week. by contrast, keyloggers only yielded about 15,000 valid credentials each week. cyber-attackers also sought to grab other information that could be useful in attacks, said the researchers.  data about a person's internet address (ip) as well as the device they were using and their physical location were all potentially useful for attackers seeking to defeat security checks. 123456password123456789abc123password1111111qwerty123456781234567 gathering this data was much harder, found the research, with only 3.8% of people who had credentials leaked also giving away ip addresses and fewer than 0.001% surrendering detailed device information. in a blog, google said it would use the results of the research to refine the ways it spotted and blocked attempts to take over accounts. in particular it would enhance efforts to use historical data about where users logged in and the devices they used to thwart impersonation attacks. the company has a range of resources for people affected or looking to protect themselves. however, the researchers acknowledged that the "multi-pronged problem" of account hijacking required efforts in lots of different areas. it noted that only 3.1% of people who had an account hijacked subsequently started using improved security measures, such as two-factor authentication, after they regained control of a lost account. because of this, they said, educating users about better ways to protect accounts should become a "major initiative". the company people's energy has contacted all its 270,000 current customers, following a data breach. co-founder karin sode told bbc news an entire database had been stolen by hackers and included information on previous customers. data stolen included names, addresses, dates of birth, phone numbers, tariff and energy meter ids, she said. but with the exception of that of 15 small-business customers, no financial information had been accessed. those businesses' bank accounts and sort codes had been accessed, ms sode said. and they had been contacted separately by phone. most of those affected are unlikely to face any direct financial risk. but having their data stolen may leave them more vulnerable to phishing attacks - where a criminal pretends to be from an official source to try to obtain other information, often using what they already have to sound credible. the breach was discovered on wednesday morning. and people's energy has contacted the information commissioner's office, the national centre for cyber-security, the energy regulator ofgem and the police. based in edinburgh, the company also has customers in england and wales. ms sode said it was investigating the breach and had called in independent experts but so far had no information about the identity of the hackers. she and david pike founded people's energy, in august 2017, with a commitment to sustainable energy and returning 75% of all profits to customers. "this is a big blow in every way," ms sode said on thursday. "we want people to feel they can trust us. "this was not part of the plan." "we're upset and sorry." a helpline has been set up for customers. candidates in the general election have been asked to look through their emails for signs that they have been targeted by a phishing attack. the list of potential targets includes recent mps. the national cyber security centre (ncsc), which is part of gchq, disclosed the request in a document released early on 16 may.  the bbc understands that the number of victims is currently understood to be in single figures. candidates have been asked to look for suspicious emails received after jan 2017. the ncsc declined to say if any data had been taken. a report in the financial times said it was "likely" that the phishing campaign had been orchestrated by a state. in a document titled phishing: guidance for political parties and their staff, the centre says it has "become aware of phishing attacks to gain access to the online accounts of individuals that were mps before dissolution of parliament" and "other staff who work in political parties". the ncsc said the attacks were likely to continue "and may be sent to parliamentary email addresses, prospective parliamentary candidates, and party staff". the bbc understands that so far victims' personal emails have been affected but no successful phishing attempts have been made via parliamentary email addresses. it is believed that the ncsc has contacted the electoral commission about the threat and that the commission will help to alert candidates. the centre said that potential victims should look out for "unexpected requests to reset your password for online or social media accounts (such as apple, google, microsoft, facebook or twitter)".  "or you might have been asked to approve changes to your account that you've not requested." the ncsc did not say whether it knew who was behind the phishing campaign.  the warnings to political parties come as cyber-security officials brace themselves for some kind of incident during the elections.  no-one can be sure that anything will take place, but the experience of the us and more recently france has led them to believe that some kind of theft and then dump of information is possible.  in both those cases, a russian hand is suspected. intelligence agencies have historically kept their distance from the communication of politicians due to the doctrine that says mps should not be monitored.  but parties and politicians themselves have been asking for advice and guidance in recent months amid growing concerns. concern about elections being targeted by hackers has been running high, following the attack on the democratic national committee during the us presidential election. us authorities attributed that incident to russia and said that a significant component of the attack involved phishing.  more recently, the electoral campaign of president emmanuel macron in france was targeted by a similar campaign. the ncsc has said the uk has "systems in place to defend against electoral fraud at all levels and [we] have seen no successful cyber-intervention in uk democratic processes". the bbc understands that since last month, the ncsc has delivered cyber-security seminars to the uk's political parties, with the aim of helping them reduce the risk of succumbing to an attack. advice has also been offered to local authorities and the electoral commission. more than 746,000 phishing emails pretending to be from the nhs were blocked in just one month in 2017, the national cyber security centre says. a report on the first year of the gchq unit's cyber-defence programme found that it removed 121,479 phishing sites hosted in the uk. this reduced the uk's share of global phishing attacks from 5.3% to 3.1%. three-quarters of uk government-related phishing sites were taken down in 24 hours. phishing emails trick users into visiting websites that impersonate known brands and ask the user to log in to their account. this enables attackers to gather confidential login details or financial information.  phishing emails are also used to trick people into opening malicious email attachments that install malware on their computers. the methods of reducing phishing involved using various security scanning systems to perform millions of tests on government websites and emails being sent in and out of government networks. "what they've done is not rocket science - the technology's been around for a while, but they've managed to persuade various government departments to do the simple things to reduce cyber-security threats dramatically," cyber-security expert prof alan woodward, from surrey university, told the bbc. "phishing emails from hm revenue and customs (hmrc) used to be the most common emails you'd see, but they got the hmrc to put the technology in place, and the spoofing emails dropped to zero in a matter of days." cyber-security expert graham cluley said that technologies used were not new, but the ncsc's efforts had produced "impressive results". "of course they won't have caught every phishing attempt, but they will have helped stamp out many of the most convincing attacks," he told the bbc.  martyn thomas, gresham college's professor of it, agreed: "i think their success rate on stopping really legitimate-looking spam is really high and they are to be congratulated." while prof thomas felt that the ncsc would benefit from having a "longer-term vision" when it came to cybersecurity, he felt the fact that the government agency could gain intelligence from gchq on potential cyber-attacks gave it an edge over commercial cybersecurity contractors.  prof woodward said the ncsc's work was "an important development" because the organisation was able to close down the opportunity for people to pretend to be from within the nhs, which would help to prevent future attacks. "the biggest problem is people pretending to be within," he said. "whenever you receive something that seems to come from your own network, you inherently trust it." six weeks ago, a young woman called zed (not her real name) was in a meeting at work when a message popped up on facebook messenger from a distant friend. "hey babe," it began. the friend asked zed to vote for her in an online modelling competition, which she agreed to do.  but then - disaster. adding her email address to the competition register had caused a tech meltdown, her friend said. she needed to borrow her email log-in to fix it quickly and restore her votes.  zed was unsure. the friend begged - her career was at stake, she pleaded. still in the meeting and powerless to make a call, zed gave in - a momentary leap of faith. except it was not her friend that she was talking to - someone else had got into the account and was pretending to be her.  it's a scamming technique known as spear phishing. "phishing uses behavioural psychology to trick victims into trusting the attacker in order to obtain sensitive information," said paul bischoff of comparitech, who also talked to zed.  "spear phishing is less prevalent, but far more dangerous. spear phishing targets an individual or small group of people. the attacker can gather personal information about their target to build a more believable persona." besides never sharing the credentials for your online accounts, a good way to stay safe is to enable "two-step authentication". this means that users must enter another code besides their password, received for example by their mobile phone, to log in. this can usually be set up in the security settings for your account or during the sign-up process. two-step authentication is offered by gmail, hotmail, apple, amazon, yahoo, facebook and twitter among others. within minutes, zed watched in horror as she was locked out of one account after another, as well as her apple icloud where she stored all her data - including a photo of her passport, bank details, and some explicit pictures. the hacker took control of all her ids as they were all linked to the email address details she had supplied.  the scammer also activated an extra layer of security, called two-step authentication, meaning that they received all alerts about her accounts and could reset them. then a man called. the number had a pakistan area code.  "he started the call by saying he didn't want any drama, he didn't want me to cry, he wanted me to talk to him like a professional," she said. he sounded young, perhaps a college student, she thought. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning he accused her of leading an "immoral" life. he had seen her photographs, he knew she had smoked and had boyfriends and was sexually active.  he asked her what her parents would think and was furious when she said they already knew. "he claimed he had hacked thousands of women," zed says. "he said 10 or 12 he had felt bad about because he couldn't find anything about them that was 'wrong'." zed was not part of that group. "he said he was happy when he hacked my account. that i deserved everything." he told her he would post the explicit pictures on her facebook page - where she has more than 1,000 friends. "i offered him money. i asked if i could pay. he said, 'don't talk about money.' he sounded irritated," she said. instead, he wanted her to perform a sex act for him on camera.  zed refused. "either you do it for me or you do it for the whole world," he told her - and uploaded one of the photos to facebook.  zed had already warned her boyfriend and parents who assembled an army of friends waiting to report activity on her account. within 15 minutes it had been disabled by facebook - but she still received concerned messages from contacts. "a friend who is like a brother sent me a message - it wasn't him who had seen [the photo] but a friend of his," she said. "i feel like i mustn't think too much about how many people saw [the photos]." the last thing the scammer said to her was, "have a great life." "it seemed to me the only reason he was doing this was to morally police women and get them to do stuff for him," zed said. "he wanted a gallery of explicit photographs of women. that seemed to be his motive." zed does not consider herself to be digitally naive. she is a bright, articulate 20-something from india who works in the media industry on the us east coast. "i have been tech savvy and on the internet almost my entire life - but i've never really seen the power of what people can do until now," she says.  regaining control of her accounts has been a struggle. it took zed a month to get her apple id back after engineers created a bespoke questionnaire for her containing answers that were not stored in her account. gmail and facebook have also been restored, but she has lost snapchat and her hotmail address - her central account which she had used for more than 13 years.  "i feel for the poor woman - these scams are so easy to fall for," said cybersecurity expert prof alan woodward from surrey university. "i think what it shows is that security is a combination of people, process and technology.  you can be very 'savvy' in any one or two of these but scammers are superb at finding novel combinations that, frankly, we just wouldn't think of.  "i know it sounds so obvious but, regardless of who they are, you should not share your username and password.  give these scammers a small chink in the armour and they are sadly brilliant at getting in and running amok in your digital life." zed still uses icloud but does not store personal stuff on it anymore - and has activated two-step verification everywhere.   "i still see the value in the storage. but i will never ever give any information away again," she said. zed originally decided to share her story on community site reddit after trying to find others who may have been conned by the same man. "i was really shocked to discover that i found absolutely nothing," she said. "i was hoping that speaking up about it would remedy that problem and encourage others to share their stories. "it also felt like the only way to get back at him." as far as zed knows, the scammer has not been caught. "cyber-criminals come in all shapes and sizes,' said prof woodward.  "their motive is not always monetary gain. as we have sadly seen of late, revenge or just being plain malicious is a growing trend."  criminal organisations are offering subscription services to other fraudsters to teach them a scam in which they impersonate their victims. fraud prevention organisation cifas said fraudsters were sharing tips and getting more sophisticated in their attempts to steal money. cases of a particular scam targeting shoppers, which often spikes at christmas, have tripled this year. criminals harvest personal information then buy items in someone else's name. the so-called facility takeover fraud sees victims reveal personal or financial information to someone they believe is genuine, such as supposed bank staff.  criminals then use this information to access bank or credit card accounts to order items in the victim's name. online banking accounts can also be taken over as a result of phishing, spyware or malware scams on computers. cifas - a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies - said its intelligence team had seen evidence of criminals charging each other for information on the dark web. this is the part of the internet that is invisible to search engines. criminals have long shared so-called sucker lists, detailing people who they have previously tricked in a scam and could be potential victims again. there were 7,461 reports in the retail sector from january to september recorded by cifas, compared with 2,365 in the same period in 2019. there was also a big rise in cases of fraudsters using the same kind of scam to order mobile phones. cifas said techniques used by criminals were becoming more sophisticated as they were finding new ways to circumvent security measures put in place by companies.  beware christmas parcel delivery scams, banks warnbanks 'too often blaming customers' for fraud mike haley, chief executive of cifas, said: "we often notice a spike in this activity over the festive period, and so i would urge everyone to remain vigilant if contacted by anyone claiming to be from an organisation they trust, such as a bank, mobile phone company or even the police." last month, banking trade body uk finance warned criminals were using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through phishing emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud a phishing email that targeted gmail users is estimated to have cost the state of minnesota $90,000 (£69,400). about 2,500 state employees received the email, according to the state chief information security officer. around the world, people have reported getting multiple copies of the email, while others have received the message from trusted organisations. one million gmail users, which google says is "fewer than 0.1%", were affected. the cost to the minnesota state government was mainly the result of employees dealing with the attack rather than carrying out their normal jobs, said state chief information security officer christopher buse. "i estimated three minutes of time per employee… it may be much more than that in many cases," he told abc news. "it's important for people to understand not only that the attacks are happening but also to understand how costly they are." mr buse said that the cost could have been much higher but minnesota state government agencies generally did not use gmail or google docs. "most of these scams are done using office documents like word and excel spreadsheets", ken munro, of pen test partners, told the bbc. "but a lot of big companies have moved away from traditional office software packages, and an increasing number are moving towards using google." besides the minnesota state government, a large number of other gmail users were affected. jacquelyn piette, who is studying for an mba at boston college, tweeted that she had just received warning of the phishing scam when the message arrived in her inbox. users who received the email were told a contact of theirs had shared a document with them on google docs. if they clicked on the "open in docs" button, they were taken to a genuine google page that required them to log in with their account credentials. once logged in, a service called "google apps" would ask them for permission to access their email account data. by agreeing to share their data, users were potentially giving the hackers access to their email account, contacts and online documents. the malware used this access to send copies of the phishing email to everyone in the recipient's contacts list. "as companies get better at security, scammers will start looking for connections between personal email accounts and professional accounts, which might sidestep some of the company's security," mr munro said. he said that introducing "layers of separation" - such as not checking personal email on the office computer - could help prevent such phishing campaigns spreading. "companies could say they might not want you to check personal email on your work computer, but they don't mind you checking it on your mobile." google said it had stopped the attack "within approximately one hour" and fewer than 0.1% of its users had been affected - about one million people. those who did click on the link have been advised to log into their accounts and revoke access to google apps, then change their password. google says it has stopped a phishing email that reached about a million of its users. the scam claimed to come from google docs - a service that allows people to share and edit documents online. users who clicked a link and followed instructions, risked giving the hackers access to their email accounts. google said it had stopped the attack "within approximately one hour", including through "removing fake pages and applications". "while contact information was accessed and used by the campaign, our investigations show that no other data was exposed," google said in an updated statement. "there's no further action users need to take regarding this event; users who want to review third party apps connected to their account can visit google security checkup."  microsoft attacks google's windows hack alert'one billion' affected by yahoo hack during the attack, users were sent a deceptive invitation to edit a google doc, with a subject line stating a contact "has shared a document on google docs with you".  the email address hhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh@mailinator[.]com was also copied in to the message; mailinator, a free email service provider has denied any involvement.   if users clicked on the "open in docs" button in the email, they were then taken to a real google-hosted page and asked to allow a seemingly real service, called "google docs", to access their email account data. by granting permission, users unwittingly allowed hackers to potentially access to their email account, contacts and online documents.  the malware then e-mailed everyone in the victim's contacts list in order to spread itself. "this is a very serious situation for anybody who is infected because the victims have their accounts controlled by a malicious party," justin cappos, a cyber security professor at nyu, told reuters. according to pc world magazine, the scam was more sophisticated than typical phishing attacks, whereby people trick people into handing over their personal information by posing as a reputable company.  this is because the hackers bypassed the need to steal people's login credentials and instead built a third-party app that used google processes to gain account access. the russian hacking group fancy bear has been accused of using similar attack methods, but one security expert doubted their involvement.  "i don't believe they are behind this... because this is way too widespread," jaime blasco, chief scientist at security provider alienvault, told pc world.  google said the spam campaign affected "fewer than 0.1%" of gmail users. that works out to about one million people affected. last year, an american man pleaded guilty to stealing celebrities' nude pictures by using a phishing scam to hack their icloud and gmail accounts. and in 2013, google said it had detected thousands of phishing attacks targeting email accounts of iranian users ahead of the country's presidential election. subway customers in the uk are receiving scam emails as part of a phishing attack. users took to social media to complain about the emails, which claim to be an order confirmation from the fast-food chain and contain links to malware. the emails also use the victims' names, and appear to come from the chain's subcard loyalty scheme. subway has not said whether its databases have been compromised or what the source of the scam is. but the firm has acknowledged that there is a problem. a spokesperson for the company said: "we are aware of some disruption to our email systems and understand some of our guests have received an unauthorised email." it apologised for any inconvenience and advised people to delete the email. the problem was earlier reported by computer security news site bleeping computer, which said it had found a form of malware called trickbot in the malicious links the email encourages users to click. trickbot is designed to steal personal information from infected computers, and can also install other viruses and ransomware. the email links to fake documents that supposedly need to be confirmed - including insurance documents for the sandwich, suggesting that the attack had been repurposed from an existing scam. bleeping computer reports that these documents include an excel spreadsheet download, which asks users to enable additional features that install the virus. it is not clear how the attacker accessed the details of customers. online, some recipients claimed that the attack email appeared to come from the address that the company usually uses. update 12 december: subway has issued a fresh statement: "having investigated the matter, we have no evidence that guest accounts have been hacked. however, the system which manages our email campaigns has been compromised, leading to a phishing campaign that involved first name and email. the system does not hold any bank or credit card details. crisis protocol was initiated and compromised systems locked down. the safety of our guests and their personal data is our overriding priority and we apologise for any inconvenience this may have caused." the international vaccine supply chain has been targeted by cyber-espionage, according to ibm. the company says it tracked a campaign aimed at the delivery "cold chain" used to keep vaccines at the right temperature during transportation. the attackers' identity is unclear - but ibm said the sophistication of their methods indicated a nation state. it follows warnings from governments - including the uk's - of countries targeting aspects of vaccine research. ibm says it believes the campaign started in september 2020.  it says phishing emails were sent out across six countries, which targeted organisations linked to the cold chain equipment optimisation platform (cceop) of gavi, the international vaccine alliance. gavi's partners include the world health organization, unicef, the world bank and the bill & melinda gates foundation. they help distribute vaccines around the world to some of the poorest regions. this sometimes requires a "cold chain".  for example, the pfizer-biontech vaccine - which was not the specific target of this campaign - will need to be kept at a temperature of about -70c as it is moved about. the attackers impersonated a business executive from a legitimate chinese company involved in cceop's supply cold chain to make it more likely the targets would engage with the email. they then sent phishing emails to organisations that provided transportation, which contained malicious code and asked for people's log in credentials.  that could have allowed them to understand the infrastructure that governments intended to use to distribute vaccines.  "advanced insight into the purchase and movement of a vaccine that can impact life and the global economy is likely a high-value and high-priority nation-state target," ibm says. ibm says the wider targeting included: the european commission's directorate general taxation and customs unioncompanies involved in manufacturing solar panels, which can be used to keep vaccines cold in places where reliable power is not availablea south korean software-development companya german website-development company, which supports clients associated with pharmaceutical manufacturers, container transport, biotechnology and manufacturers of electrical components for communications ibm says the campaign was uncovered by a security team it set up at the start of the pandemic to track down covid-19 cyber-threats.  "the precision targeting and nature of the specific targeted organisations potentially point to nation-state activity," the us company said.  "without a clear path to a [pay]out, cyber-criminals are unlikely to devote the time and resources required to execute such a calculated operation." ibm says it has notified those targeted as well as law-enforcement authorities. the us's cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency (cisa) has issued an alert encouraging organisations associated with the storage and transport of a vaccine to be on guard for the kind of attacks linked to ibm's report. in july, the uk warned russian intelligence had targeted uk vaccine research, including at oxford.  the us also warned of chinese hacking, while, more recently, microsoft said it had seen north korean and russian hackers targeting vaccine research.  officials suggested the activity so far had been about intelligence gathering rather than disruption of any research. phishing remains one of the most common ways that cybercriminals get hold of your personal details.the bbc's chris fox explains what it is and how you can protect yourself. electronic signature service provider docusign has admitted customer email addresses were accessed in a data breach. the addresses were then targeted in a series of phishing emails from "a malicious third party". the messages invited recipients to click on a link to a microsoft word document containing malware. docusign said that no other information was accessed in the incident, and the e-signature service remained secure. "no names, physical addresses, passwords, social security numbers, credit card data or other information was accessed," the company said in a statement. "docusign's core e-signature service, envelopes and customer documents and data remain secure." the company has advised people to delete any suspicious messages immediately.  the breach came to light when the company noticed an increase in phishing emails sent to some of their account holders last week. according to a statement published on docusign's website, "a malicious third party gained temporary access to a separate, non-core system that allows us to communicate service-related announcements to users via email". million hit by google phishing scamgoogle and facebook duped in huge 'scam'what is phishing? the emails included the docusign branding and appeared to come from addresses ending "docus.com", a lookalike domain. the subject line referred to either a wire transfer or an accounting invoice, saying: "document ready for signature". a full copy of the email has been published on the techhelplist website, which reported that the malware contained in the attachment could be used to steal passwords and banking credentials. "phishing is almost the default way of tricking people into giving away that information," keith martin, professor of information security at royal holloway, university of london, told the bbc. "where it's targeting a bank, for example, the senders are going to use headers and language that'll make customers believe it's their bank. "with a generic phishing trawl, the message will go out and the more people who click the better - it's literally like fishing, hoping to get some bites, chucking a message out there speculatively. "with most, you don't need a very high success rate to make money." new students are being alerted to a scam where fraudsters claim to offer a "educational grant" in a bid to con them into divulging bank details.  the personal finance site money saving expert says it is aware of students at major universities being targeted in a new wave of "phishing emails".  at queen mary university london, one student was tricked out of £300.  university of glasgow said it was also aware of the scam and had advised students to ignore the email.  the mother of the qmul student said her daughter had received the scam email last week.  it looked as if it had come from the university's finance department, complete with the logo, and invited the young woman to claim a government bursary.  an online form asked her for personal and banking details and took her to a bank verification page, which was when she became suspicious.  but, mse says, the student found the fraudsters had already taken £300 from her bank account.  in a statement qmul said: "we were made aware late last week that a number of qmul students had received these phishing emails. "qmul proactively monitors its systems to prevent and detect breaches, and there is no evidence to suggest any system has been compromised in this instance. "a message was sent to all students warning them about the scam and providing them with advice on how they can protect themselves online, including details of our cybersecurity training courses." the university said it did not believe the scam had affected many students and said it was confident its own systems had not been breached.  the university of glasgow said it would never ask for banking information in this way.  in an email to all students, the university said it had become aware of a scam email headed: "educational grant information".  "this is an email message that appears as if it has come from the university of glasgow's finance department. it has not," the university said.  earlier this year, the police site action fraud warned of a similar "phishing" campaign at universities.  the student loans company said students were particularly vulnerable to "phishing" attempts around the main payment dates, in september, january and april.  "phishing emails are sent in batches so there will be more in circulation," it said.  "we want to remind students to stay vigilant with the details they provide online," said paul mason, the slc director responsible for combating fraud.  he advised students receiving unsolicited emails to be alert to poor spelling and grammar and to demands for a rapid response. they are also advised not to reply and not to click on any links.  suspected attempts should be reported to phishing@slc.co.uk or to action fraud.  cyber-thieves are sticking to email as their preferred way to trick victims into falling for scams, suggests a report.  the online crime groups were shunning mobiles and newer technologies in favour of phishing campaigns, said the report from verizon.  the annual analysis catalogues more than 100,000 security incidents that hit thousands of companies in 2015. almost 90% of the incidents involved attempts to steal cash, it said. the gangs were sticking to booby-trapped emails because they were proving increasingly effective, said marc spitler, lead author on the report. and, so far, there was little evidence novel technologies involving net-connected gadgets or smartphones were becoming a popular attack route. about 30% of phishing emails had been opened by people in targeted organisations in 2015, said the report, up from 23% in 2014.  and, of the scam emails opened, about 13% had been able to launch malware because staff had run the attachments they had carried. this meant, said mr spitler, it often took just minutes for criminals to compromise the network of a targeted company. "if an attack works, then it works very quickly," he said.  "the phishing email typically leads to the installation of malware or the compromise of a user's pc by some sort of malicious code that can establish control or persistence on a network," said mr spitler.  unfortunately, he added, although companies fell victim quickly, they could take far longer to notice they had been breached.  statistics gathered for the verizon report suggest 84% of the organisations questioned took weeks to spot that criminals had won access to internal systems. a new type of phishing email that includes the recipient's home address has been received by thousands of people, the bbc has learned. members of the bbc radio 4's you and yours team were among those who received the scam emails, claiming they owed hundreds of pounds to uk firms. the firms involved have been inundated with phone calls from worried members of the public. one security expert warned clicking on the link would install malware. you and yours reporter shari vahl was one of the first on the team to receive an email. "the email has good spelling and grammar and my exact home address...when i say exact i mean, not the way my address is written by those autofill sections on web pages, but the way i write my address.    "my tummy did a bit of a somersault when i read that, because i wondered who on earth i could owe £800 to and what was about to land on my doormat." she quickly realised it was a scam and did not click on the link. "then, a couple of minutes later, you and yours producer jon douglas piped up as he'd received one and then another colleague said he'd received one too, but to his home email address," she added. the you and yours team decided to contact the companies that were listed in the emails as being owed money. a spokesman for british millerain co ltd, a waxed cotton fabric manufacturer, told the programme that the firm "had more than 150 calls from people who don't owe us money". and a spokeswoman for manchester shelving firm greenoaks said: "my colleague took a call from an elderly gentleman and he was very distressed because his wife had had one of these emails."   dr steven murdoch, principal research fellow at the department of computer science at university college london, told you and yours: "most likely it was a retailer or other internet site that had been hacked into and the database stolen, it then could have been sold or passed through several different people and then eventually it got to the person who sent out these emails."  he said that the email bore the hallmark of previous phishing attempts from gangs in eastern europe and russia. he said that clicking on the link would install malware such as cryptolocker, which is a form of ransomware that will encrypt files on windows-based computers and then demand a fee to unlock them. anyone receiving such an email is advised to delete it and report it to the national fraud and cybercrime reporting centre action fraud. thousands of football fans were sent a scam email asking them to pay a bill after a scottish football association database was apparently hacked. an invoice for £170 was sent to subscribers to the scotland supporters club mailing list just after 09:00. the email - addressed "dear customer" - provided a link for payment, which was a disguised website address. the sfa said a third-party email database had been compromised and urged recipients to delete the email. its statement said: "we would like to apologise to those who have received a spoof email this morning purporting to be from the scottish fa." it recommended that anyone who may have opened it run a security check on their computer to ensure no malware had been installed. it said: "we would like to assure all supporters that no bank or credit card details have been shared. "we have moved to delete this account and the issue has been raised with our suppliers. "we will provide an update in early course." fans on message boards suggested that clicking on the link within the scam email could infect computers with a virus and leave them out of pocket. the email contained links identical to those sent on official communications to supporters and were signed off as being from the "accounts department" of the scotland supporters club. the group - which gives members access to away tickets for scotland matches - currently has 29,231 members. it takes 82 seconds for cyber-thieves to ensnare the first victim of a phishing campaign, a report suggests. compiled by verizon, the report looks at analyses of almost 80,000 security incidents that hit thousands of companies in 2014. it found that, in many companies, about 25% of those who received a phishing email were likely to open it. "training your employees is a critical element of combating this threat," said bob rudis, lead author on the report. tricking people into opening a booby-trapped message let attackers grab login credentials that could be used to trespass on a network and steal data, the report said. "they do not have to use complex software exploits, because often they can get hold of legitimate credentials," mr rudis said. analysis of data breaches found that, in many cases, it had taken less than two minutes for freshly sent phishing emails to catch their first victim. and, said mr rudis, half of the victims had clicked on the message within the first hour of it being sent. although attackers racked up victims quickly, it took companies far longer to notice they had been compromised, mr rudis said. the report also found companies could take straight-forward steps to defend themselves against well-crafted phishing emails designed to make people open them and their attachments.  teaching staff to spot bogus messages could reduce the proportion of victims to sent emails from one in four to one in 20, he said.  showing workers the tell-tale signs of a phishing email could also turn them into another line of defence that could catch messages missed by automatic detection systems. "they should be treating employees as tools in the fight rather than as lambs to the slaughter," mr rudis said. after phishing, some cyber-thieves relied on companies running un-patched software that was vulnerable to old and well-known exploits, he said.  more than 99% of the vulnerabilities exploited in data breaches had been known about for more than a year, mr rudis said. and some had been around for a decade. "there are some vulnerabilities that just linger out there," he said. a good patching regime would help companies protect themselves against most of the vulnerabilities cyber-thieves abuse, mr rudis added. find out how to avoid scam emails an initial internal investigation into a cyber attack on a housing firm found no evidence customer or staff data was stolen. flagship group, based in norwich, said the attack took "most of our group's systems offline". it said a suspected phishing or ransomware attack on 1 november caused "considerable disruption" to staff and customer services.  the firm said other independent investigations were ongoing. the attack was reported to the regulator of social housing, the national cyber security centre (ncsc) and the information commissioner's office (ico). the ncsc and the ico have not yet reported the findings of their investigations. in a statement, flagship said its it systems were now "in a stage of carefully controlled recovery".   the firm said it had also offered fraud and web monitoring services to its customers and staff "for added piece of mind".  flagship group owns some 31,000 homes in the east of england and employs 1,200 people in its facilities, repairs, maintenance and heating departments. in 2017-18, it had an annual turnover of £133.7m. it has tenants in norfolk, suffolk, cambridge and essex and also builds and sells houses to private owners. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk since march, hackers have had access to key parts of the us government - and only in the last week has their presence been uncovered.  on tech tent we assess the damage done by what may be the most successful act of cyber-espionage yet seen. listen to the latest tech tent podcast on bbc soundslisten live every friday at 15.00 gmt on the bbc world service it was last sunday when it emerged that a company called solarwinds had been hacked and its customers were being advised to disconnect from one of its key products, the orion platform, used to monitor networks. i'm sure many people yawned and thought this was just another hack but to cyber-security experts the name of the company targeted was a red flag. "the moment i heard solarwinds was involved, the alarm bells went off," rick holland, chief information security officer at digital shadows, tells tech tent. that was because customers of solarwinds network monitoring tools include many branches of the us government. "you have the highest tiers of both the military side of the government, as well as the civilian agencies in the government, as well." through the week it seemed each day brought news of another key agency whose defences had been breached since the attackers tampered with an update to the solarwinds orion platform.  the departments of treasury and commerce were named first, then homeland security, the national institute of health and even the los alamos nuclear weapons lab were said to have been compromised. at an early stage reuters news agency said three sources had told it russia was behind the attack - an allegation the russian foreign ministry described as baseless.  the us government has been cautious about attributing the attack to the russians, although the fbi has said it is investigating "in order to attribute, pursue, and disrupt the responsible threat actors". in the new york times on thursday president trump's former homeland security adviser, tom bossert, was clear about who he thinks is responsible. "the magnitude of this ongoing attack is hard to overstate," he wrote. "the russians have had access to a considerable number of important and sensitive networks for six to nine months."  but whoever did it, how did they manage to get through the defences of a company like solarwinds with what the company describes as a " very sophisticated supply-chain attack"?  rick holland has a theory: "we do know that solarwinds, in their filing to the security and exchange commission this week, alluded to microsoft, which makes me think that the initial access into the solarwinds environment was through a phishing email. so someone clicked on something they thought was benign -  turned out it was not benign." if it did all start with a phishing email, that won't sound too sophisticated to many people.  but in a blog post, calling for a global response to what he describes as a moment of reckoning, microsoft's president, brad smith, says his own company's investigations confirm that this was an attack "remarkable for its scope, sophistication and impact". while not attributing the attack to russia in so many words, he notes the country's involvement in previous hacks and calls this latest one "an act of recklessness that created a serious technological vulnerability for the united states and the world". much of the language used about this attack by both american government officials and private companies sounds like that used during periods of tension during the cold war. but so far, the man who leads the united states has been silent. president trump was swift in sacking us cyber-security chief chris krebs after he described the november election as the most secure in american history. but he has not said a word about what looks like the modern equivalent of an armed raid on the united states mainland by a foreign power.  a woman has told the  victoria derbyshire programme how she was conned out of her life savings by scammers who sent her a 'phishing' email. 59-year-old vivian gabb, a pilates and tennis coach from london, was in the final stages of buying a house when the scammers struck.she was unaware that her email had been hacked and every email she wrote and received was being monitored by criminals.they sent her a message disguised as a follow-up email from her solicitor, asking for nearly £50,000 to be paid into their account.the internet safety advice website get safe online says more than half (51%) of people in the uk have been a victim of an online crime, and 15% of people have been victims of either attempted or successful hacks of their email account. watch  victoria derbyshire on weekdays from 09:15-11:00 bst on bbc two and bbc news channel. follow the programme on facebook and twitter, and find all our content online. british airways has issued a warning about a fake 'phishing' email purporting to come from the airline. on monday, a county down man received an email from bc.custsrvcs@email.ba.com confirming an order for a flight from london on feb 26 with a price of £490. the man had not booked any such flight. while no money was taken from him, he was asked to click on links to confirm the flight. ba has warned the email is an attempt to get people's personal details. the airline said it had been contacted by a number of customers on monday who had received such an email. ba said other examples of fake emails included: ones with a subject line like "it's time to check-in online" inviting the recipient to click a link to check in for a fictitious upcoming flight.asking people to pay a bta tax ("basic travel allowance"), tfa ("travelling fees allowance"), or similar, to enable a friend to travel.contain unsolicited offers of employment with british airways requiring the recipient to purchase a visa.claiming to be from british airways world cargo, advising the person that a parcel is awaiting collection and requesting bank details or additional payments via western union.congratulating the recipient on winning a cash prize in a competition you have not entered.       offering tickets to sporting or music events claiming to come from a member of british airways cabin crew. the airline said the emails are not from british airways, but are attempts to secure personal information or extort money from consumers. "legitimate emails from british airways will contain your booking reference and the email will not have been sent from a web-based mail server such as gmail, hotmail, yahoo, etc," ba said.  "in addition, british airways will never request money payments through a third party or promise you any kind of cash prize." "if any customers have any doubts about emails they have received, british airways advises that they should not click on any links or download any files. "if you or anyone else receives these emails, please forward suspected email scams to: phishing@email.ba.com and british airways will investigate its authenticity and take appropriate action." a department of enterprise, trade and investment spokeswoman said they were aware of the scam but had not received any complaints.  "legitimate businesses don't ask you to send sensitive information through insecure channels," she said.  "always look carefully at the email address the message has been sent from, as they will often closely resemble a genuine email address, with perhaps one or two letters spelled differently." kate russell's weekly review of the best apps and websites.anti-key-logging software like keyscrambler from qfx software can protect users from phishing emails and malicious websites that deploy key logging software to mine your personal details.storymaker is a blackberry 10 app which turn smartphone photo albums into beautiful animated slideshows with just a couple of taps.the button affair is a side-scrolling run, jump and roll adventure for pc or mac made in the style of rio de janeiro in the 1960s.thanks to a new iphone app, disney action, you can star in your own animated clip alongside mr incredible, sully from monster inc, or jack sparrow from pirates of the caribbean. google paid almost $1bn for crowdsourced mapping company waze in june. we are now beginning to see some results with key features being shared this week. redesigned and re-launched this week, owl is a site that helps uk citizens find and join their local neighbourhood watch group. watch more clips on the click website. if you are in the uk you can watch the whole programme on bbc iplayer. fraudsters are stepping up phishing campaigns that target people who use dating websites, suggests research. members of match.com, eharmony, zoosk, christian mingle and many others had received emails seeking to steal login details for the sites, said netcraft.  the net monitoring firm said the emails had been sent from other websites, hacked to hide the senders' identity. stolen data would be used to befriend other users in an attempt to trick them into handing over cash, it said. the phishing campaign against dating sites marked a departure for fraudsters, who typically preferred to target banks, said paul mutton, a security analyst at netcraft who investigated the attacks.  the attacks were "massive", he said, adding that in the past week netcraft had seen more than 100 compromised sites targeting match.com alone. so far, he said, it was not clear how sites were being compromised to host the scripts. websites and servers run by individuals, small businesses, construction firms and telecom suppliers had all become unwitting hosts of the phishing tools, he added. mr mutton said just one compromised site he had seen was home to about 800 short programs or scripts that targeted many different dating sites. each script looked like it had been generated by a "kit" bought online. "anyone with a very basic knowledge of programming could make use of the kit," he said.  the scripts are used to craft phishing emails that are spammed out to potential victims.  the mails seek to trick people into entering their login names for the dating sites.  if successful, the details are passed on to the legitimate login page of a dating website and are also sent to one of 300 email addresses used by the phishing gang.  fraudsters were keen to steal login details for accounts so they could avoid paying the charges dating sites levied before users could swap messages with other members, said mr mutton. using on-site messages the fraudsters hope to befriend others and then try to extract cash to help pay for a non-existent medical condition or to aid fictitious relatives.  significant amounts of cash could be stolen this way, said mr mutton, pointing to the case of karen and tracy vasseur, of colorado, who were jailed in 2013 for stealing more than $1m (£590,000) from 374 people using dating-site scams. a phishing email purporting to have been sent from a theatre ticket agency could have affected thousands of computer users, the firm said. the email states that the recipient has booked tickets to bournemouth pavilion's peter pan show at christmas, but includes a link which installs a virus. bh live said there had been no data breach of its customers' details. head of communications matt good called it "a classic phishing exercise". he said the agency started to receive calls about the emails, which look identical to its usual email postings, early on monday morning. mr good said: "the emails were sent from known spam ip addresses." "a number of precautionary measures have been taken to ensure data, systems and networks continue to be protected," he added. anyone receiving the mails is advised not to open them and not to click on the enclosed link. they have also been urged to update online and computer passwords. bitcoin has soared to trade at an eye-watering $48,000 (£34,820), following the news that tesla has bought $1.5bn of the crypto-currency.  enthusiasts will tell you it's the future of money - but investing in the notoriously volatile virtual currency can be a rollercoaster, and it's not without risk. the hunt for new coins, using powerful computers, is also causing a surge in energy demand - which is not so good for the environment. here are some of your bitcoin adventures. james saye, tech consultant  i first invested in bitcoin in 2017 - i was nervous about putting too much in, so i went for around £500. i cashed it in for £2,500 during one of its peaks, and had a great holiday in iceland - the cash came in handy, iceland is lovely but expensive. i bought in again in 2018 when the price was lower so i'm still in but i don't regret cashing out when i did. heather delaney, founder of gallium ventures i've been the silent crypto-investor. i put in £5 at the very beginning and i've built it slowly and steadily over time. i see it as a long-term strategy, meaning the rapid highs and lows are not ones that cause me anxiety - although ask me as i near my retirement and we shall see what i think then! based on how much i have invested in bitcoin over time versus what i see today, i have a 585.41% increase in my investment.  i've never cashed it out - but i have converted some to other currencies as the market has fluctuated. i know loads of people who have done exciting things with their investments but for me it's part of my pension plan. i know i'm not typical.  david stubley, founder of 7 elements cyber-security firm we had a client whose bitcoin wallet was fraudulently accessed and all the money was transferred out of it. he had intended to use it as a deposit on a house. the man had been spooked by reports of fluctuations in the currency and decided to check his wallet. but he clicked on a fraudulent link, which led him to a phishing site, a complete clone of the real thing. he had 84 bitcoins, and the fraudsters transferred 83 of them. at the time, in 2017, they were worth $475,000. we tracked the payment on the blockchain [a kind of shared digital public ledger] - we could see it rolling across various wallets and finally it reached a wallet containing $15m of currency. while the final identity of the fraudsters could not be identified, we were able to have the wallets frozen, so at least denying access to the stolen funds. our client was irate but philosophical. today, that stolen bitcoin would be worth £2.8m. once it's gone, it really has gone. javed khan, independent trader  my bitcoin journey didn't start as an investment. at first, it was a form of transferring money, i didn't have to wait for confirmation from banks and so on - it was convenient. in 2018, i noticed i'd make a transfer, leave some bitcoin in my wallet and i'd see the prices go up - and before i knew it i was seeing profit, which surprised me. i had been telling my friends i was using it as a transfer tool, i hadn't thought about investing in it. in january 2020, i cashed in my bitcoin profits and bought a bentley in dubai, where i now live. i sent a video from the showroom to my mum and she cried, she was really proud. i would only put in money that i could afford to lose. the most i've lost is the transaction fees - when the price drops i don't lose faith.  i think the best time to buy bitcoin is when nobody's talking about it - wait for the hype to die down. rohan muscat, project manager and electrical engineer i became aware of bitcoin in 2010, but being a bit of a hardware geek, i wanted to mine it. in late 2016 i bought a pair of graphics cards to mine, and at first i did pretty well with it. a start-up i'd done some consulting for gave me some horizon state tokens (another form of crypto-currency) to pay part of my way, and in january 2017 those plus my mined assets were worth a$40,000 (£22,000). i decided to trade it a bit, and investigated bots while moving to bigger scale mining.  at first it paid for itself, but then it went downhill and was borderline break-even. my electricity bill shot up to a$500-a$600 a month, because the mining rig needed so much power. i ended up selling the mining gear, and i'm currently sitting on about a$2,000 in crypto.  i could have made more if i'd jumped in and out, but the emotions and risks in trading have burnt me, and i'd rather not take the risk.  daniel crocker, business owner  in 2012, i was doing an apprenticeship at an it company. at lunchtime we used to chat about little ways of making money on the side. nobody had really heard of bitcoin but we decided to give it a go and we spent a few weeks on it.  it didn't last long, but luckily i kept hold of mine.  i traded them in last summer and got half the deposit for my house. i've still got a little bit but i'm just going to sit tight - it's not something i want to pin my future on.  i do know people who have gone in deep but i think i've been lucky enough already. scammers are sending 18 million hoax emails about covid-19 to gmail users every day, according to google. the tech giant says the pandemic has led to an explosion of phishing attacks in which criminals try to trick users into revealing personal data.   the company said it was blocking more than 100 million phishing emails a day. over the past week, almost a fifth were scam emails related to coronavirus. the virus may now be the biggest phishing topic ever, tech firms say. google's gmail is used by 1.5 billion people.  individuals are being sent a huge variety of emails which impersonate authorities, such as the world health organization (who), in an effort to persuade victims to download software or donate to bogus causes. cyber-criminals are also attempting to capitalise on government support packages by imitating public institutions. google claims that its machine-learning tools are able to block more than 99.9% of emails from reaching its users. the growth in coronavirus-themed phishing is being recorded by several cyber-security companies. barracuda networks said it had seen a 667% increase in malicious phishing emails during the pandemic. scammers have been sending fake emails and text messages claiming to be from the uk government, the who, the centre for disease control and prevention and even individual us officials, including president trump. "phishing attacks always share the common trait of inciting or depending on an emotion that causes us to act more hastily or think less about our actions at that moment in time," said independent security researcher scott helme.  "the coronavirus pandemic is a highly emotional topic right now and cyber-criminals clearly know this. they're hoping that the typical person might be more inclined to click through links or follow bad instructions if they use this lure." researchers have also found malicious websites and smartphone applications based on genuine coronavirus resources.  one malicious android app claims to help track the spread of the virus, but instead infects the phone with ransomware and demands payment to restore the device. last week, the national cyber security centre and the us department of homeland security issued a joint advisory. they said they had seen "an increasing number of malicious cyber-actors" that were "exploiting the current covid-19 pandemic for their own objectives". the ncsc has published advice on its website to help people avoid becoming the victim of a scam. a group of pupils at a middle school in alaska took control of their classroom computers after phishing for administrator privileges. they asked teachers at schoenbar middle school, for 12 to 13-year-olds, to enter admin names and passwords to accept a false software update, according to reports.  the pupils used those details to access and control classmates' pcs. classmates then complained that their computers were not responding normally. associated press said that at least 18 pupils were involved in the phishing, which gave them control over 300 computers allocated for student use at the school in the alaskan town of ketchikan. those computers have now been seized. "i don't believe any hardware issues were compromised," casey robinson, the principal, told community radio station ketchikan fm.  he said: "no software issues were compromised. i don't think there was any personal information compromised. now that we have all the machines back in our control, nothing new can happen." mr robinson added there would be a review of the way that devices are maintained. "how we do business is definitely going to have to change when it comes to updating programs and resources that we have on the machines," mr robinson said. "yes, something new is going to have to happen." unprecedented changes in lifestyle in the coronavirus pandemic led to an acceleration in shifts in criminal behaviour in wales, a crime expert has said. levels of reported crime fell across wales from october 2019-2020, including in the first few months of the pandemic. but figures show reports of cyber crime, stalking and harassment spiked. professor martin innes said challenges were "unprecedented" in modern times. the cardiff university professor said while it was hard to predict the future, an increase in digital crime during the pandemic, teamed with the economic impact and increases in social tension mixed for a "worrying cocktail" for post-lockdown crime. covid lockdown rule breakers could 'make pandemic longer'policing covid in wales: 'coughed at and spat on' police forces across wales have repeatedly warned of being under immense pressure during the pandemic as they try to enforce covid laws while dealing with serious and violent crime. recent figures, released by the office of national statistics, show 245,591 crimes were reported to welsh police forces between october 2019 and september 2020, a 7% fall on the year before, although this does not include fraud figures. the number of fraud offences increased by 8% to 14,845 during the same period. while the number of burglaries (-18%), thefts (-22%) and shoplifting offences fell between september 2019-2020, stalking and harassment reports increased by 11% in wales, with 36,770 reports. domestic abuse charities also reported marked increases in calls for help when schools returned in september after abuse was not reported during lockdown. prof innes, director of the crime and security research institute at cardiff university, said crime had been shifting for years, but lockdown had seemed to accelerated rates of personal and digital crime, as people were stuck at home and spending more time online. dyfed-powys police saw the largest increase in reports of stalking and harassment offences, with 5,229 reports a 34% increase compared to the year before. in north wales police reported an increase in stalking and harassment crimes, as well as a rise in disability and transphobic hate crime. while the coronavirus pandemic has seen many acts of kindness, police have warned some criminals have used covid-19 to scam people out of their life savings. figures, published by action fraud, show victims of cyber crime and fraud in wales have reportedly lost £35.4m, with almost 13,000 crimes reported since the start of lockdown on 23 march. health officials and police have warned scammers claiming to work for the nhs are targeting vulnerable people online offering fake covid vaccines in return for cash or personal details. dyfed-powys police also reported a significant increase in romance fraud, with victims in west wales losing £1.3m between january and november last year, with officers saying criminals are targeting the lonely in lockdown. prof innes said the shift to cyber, such as online hate crime, drug dealing over apps, and smear campaigns, was a huge challenge for forces and they would need to invest in expertise and technology to be able to recover evidence. he said the impact of the pandemic on drug trade, and gang operations like county lines, was concerning, as criminal operations would have changed. "just like everybody else has changed their behaviour in the pandemic, those involved in drug behaviour have probably done the same... and probably some of those innovations they've made will stick." at a recent north wales police and crime panel chief constable carl foulkes said that officers were predicting an increase in "digital cyber criminality" and it would be a "complex and challenging" area for the future. south wales police and crime commissioner alun michael warned "increased levels of serious violence and domestic abuse were likely to continue" following the pandemic. in a report to the south wales police and crime panel, mr michael said: "the scale of the economic downturn and subsequent rate of recovery will fundamentally shape the post pandemic crime and disorder landscape in the medium to long term." he added: "people are spending more time online - increasing the risk of phishing, grooming, cyber attacks and sextortion.  "payment preferences are also shifting to increasingly be online which again opens up opportunities for online fraud." meanwhile reports of public order offences also increased across all four forces by 8%, with dyfed-powys police recording an increase of 29% during the year to september 2020. in dyfed-powys and gwent police areas, documents show the forces said crime had increased after lockdown measures were first eased in summer 2020. in gwent reports of sexual offences increased by 29% (from 128 to 126), but remained significantly lower than normal with the force saying less people were reporting the crime, while bike thefts increased by 25%, due to "cycling being encouraged...during lockdown". in the dyfed-powys area drug offences increased during the first lockdown in march, before decreasing significantly later in 2020. the force warned that public tensions remained high due to covid restrictions, and this had led to the number of reports of public order offences remaining high. there had been "exponential" increases in anti-social behaviour reports due to breaches of lockdown rules, it said. in july and august, when restrictions began to ease, there was a sharp rise in violent attacks, but the force said this was down to an "increase in alcohol related" incidents. in north wales, by the start of december, officers had issued 582 fines for covid-19 restriction breaches, with two £10k fines issued for illegal music events. prof innes said when lockdown measures were eased again, anti-social behaviour and low level public disorder could spike in communities, and with people struggling due to losing their jobs, crime levels would return to pre-pandemic levels. "people have been cooped up and there won't be an awful lot of things for people to do as the weather gets nicer," he said. "we can already see some of the social tensions kind of bubbling away when you look across europe. "longer term we are going to see a lot of empty shops and town centres are going to be very different than they have been... what we know is when you've got empty stores they act as a magnet for trouble." 'we are family: the generation game': why are more young people deciding to live with their parents?check out the latest series of foiled: bleach for the stars is thriving under new management six people have been arrested in connection with a £1m phishing operation that took money from the bank accounts of hundreds of uk students. students on government loan schemes were targeted and tricked into revealing their bank account details, police said. some £1,000 to £5,000 was taken at a time, scotland yard said. victims received emails inviting them to update details on their student account via a link to a bogus website. the metropolitan police's e-crime unit was first alerted in august 2011 and worked with the student loans company, the banking industry and internet service providers during their investigation. officers have now seized computers and other equipment from addresses in london, manchester and bolton. a 26-year-old man and a 25-year-old woman have been arrested in manchester, while a 25-year-old man was arrested in deptford, south london. a 49-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man were also arrested in stratford, north-east london, and a 38-year-old man was arrested in bolton, lancashire. phishing is when a legitimate-looking email is sent in an attempt to gather personal and financial information from recipients. cyber-criminals have invented a cunning new method of targeting victims by developing a system that behaves like a bouncer at an exclusive nightclub. security firm rsa revealed how attackers assigned targets with a unique id, meaning the scam could be aimed at specific people. if a person's id was not on the list, their computer would not be affected. rsa said the advanced threat posed a new "detection challenge" to the security industry. in a blog post, rsa cybercrime specialist limor kessem wrote: "as we adapt and improve our detection systems, we are reminded that in the never-ending cat-and-mouse game, only the nimble will survive." the so-called bouncer phishing kit targets preset lists of email addresses. for each target, a unique id is automatically generated, creating a unique web address for the user to click on. if someone has an id that does not match the list of intended targets, they will simply be presented with a 404 error page, and will be unharmed. if, however, a person is one of the unfortunate ones, the same page will instead spring into life as an "attack page" ready to steal user credentials. using this method means attackers can harvest data from certain groups of users, rather than having to sift through large amounts of data. for example, the bouncer phishing kit could be used to gather personal details on people in one particular country. "it holds this [bouncer] moniker because much like many high-profile night-time hotspots - if your name is not on the list, you're staying out," mr kessem said. "traditional phishers like to cast as wide of a net as possible. "but with this tactic the phisher is laser-focusing the campaign in an effort to collect only the most pertinent credentials for his purposes. "keeping out uninvited guests also means avoiding security companies and prompt take-downs of such attacks." phishing is a growing problem for internet users. according to rsa's data, attacks of this type were up 59% in 2012 compared with the previous year, and cost the global economy $1.5bn (£940m). fraudsters are exploiting christmas bargain-hunters who have switched to online shopping owing to coronavirus restrictions. people looking for games consoles, bicycles and clothing may be at a higher risk of encountering a scam, according to banking industry research. uk finance, which represents the finance industry, warned of scams when items were never delivered. the average loss in such cases was £720 in the first half of the year. the trade body said social media platforms, online marketplaces and auction websites were increasingly being used by criminals to carry out these purchase scams, where a customer pays in advance for goods or services that do not exist and are never received. these payments are taken off the integrated payment platform and are made through a bank transfer instead, and mean people are unlikely to be refunded. more than £27m was lost to such fraud in the first half of the year, according to uk finance figures. it also warned that purchase scams may also involve home improvement and diy purchases such as patio heaters and sheds, as fraudsters adapted to more people staying at home. fraud: 'i got the shakes every time i went online'fraudsters 'caught me in a spider's web' katy worobec, managing director of economic crime at uk finance, said: "as consumer spending has shifted online, criminals have ruthlessly adjusted their approaches to pursue those shopping on the internet.  "with black friday and christmas approaching, fraudsters are again stepping up their efforts to take advantage of consumers searching for bargains." uk finance data shows that 25 to 34-year-olds are most likely to shop online regularly. ms worobec said criminals were also using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through phishing emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the first uk-wide lockdown led to reports of rising numbers of scam and fraud attempts. figures from barclays suggested fraud attempts in general were up 66% in the first half of the year compared with the previous six months. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud singles day, the world's biggest online shopping event, has kicked off with consumers estimated to spend billions of dollars - much of which is being eyed by scammers. this year's event is expected to continue to break records across asia, as more people stay home and shop online amid the covid-19 pandemic, while those unable to travel overseas for shopping trips are expected to "revenge spend" online.  it represents a huge honeypot for scammers who, over the years, have come up with increasingly innovative ways to trick consumers, from creating fake apps to claims of formaldehyde-soaked clothes. some shoppers in china have lost tens of thousands of dollars to such ruses. authorities from several provinces including anhui, jiangsu and sichuan have issued warnings on social media platform weibo about a "fake refund" phone scam. how it works: a person impersonating a customer service officer from an e-commerce site phones the victim to inform him that a recent purchase is either out of stock or damaged, and that as compensation they will give him a refund that is more than the amount that he paid. he then asks the victim for bank account details so that he can "process the refund".  singles day: 3m people, 4,000 planes and shipschina continues to bounce back from virus slump police say they have already seen many such instances in the past few weeks during pre-singles day sales. a woman in yunnan province recently lost a total of 200,000 yuan ($30,000; £22,900) recently after she was tricked into believing that she would be getting a refund on 200 yuan worth of clothes that she bought on e-commerce platform taobao.  she had transferred money to scammers multiple times after being told that there were problems with their system, and that she had to pay to unfreeze her account.  the "fake refund" scam has seen various iterations over the years. in 2018, scammers reportedly posed as customer service officers offering refunds on clothes said to be ruined by excessive formaldehyde. one woman in wuxi city lost 44,000 yuan ($7,000) this way, after she scanned a qr code sent by a scammer which asked for her bank details.  last year, the formaldehyde scam was tweaked to trick mothers into believing that the chemical had tainted their orders of baby diapers.  other scams involve counterfeit shopping apps, which are made to look and function like those by retailers such as taobao and jd.com. as they look so similar to the real deal, victims are tricked into giving away personal information such as mobile numbers and bank account details.  according to a 2018 report by chinese online security firm 360 security brain, close to 4,000 fake shopping apps were downloaded on more than 300,000 mobile devices in china in november that year.  there have also been reports of fraud related to cash-on-delivery packages, where confused family members are asked to pay cash upfront when signing for delivered packages to their door.  singles day is the world's biggest online shopping event in terms of spending, with much of the revenue generated by chinese online retail giant alibaba.  last year, their gross merchandise value on singles day reached more than 210bn yuan (£23bn, us$31bn), which is double that of black friday and cyber monday combined. this year, alibaba is claiming to have hit 372bn yuan of sales within the first 30 minutes of the event including pre-singles day orders. originally created by the company as a chinese shopping festival, it's now expanded across the region with other online retailers in countries such as singapore, thailand and the philippines all holding their own versions. also known as double 11 as it is held annually on 11 nov,  the shopping festival offers buyers huge discounts on everything from household items and fashion accessories, to cars and even houses. the huge number of transactions during this period presents scammers with ample opportunities, and e-commerce fraudulent activities saw "significant growth" during the sales period across asian countries last year, according to data by cybersecurity firm kaspersky.  mr yeo siang tiong, general manager for south east asia, said victims often fall prey to scams on singles day because they get "caught up in the excitement" while trying to get the best deals. "in addition, many of the phishing scams in particular have become quite convincing, making it hard for consumers to differentiate between truth and fiction," he said.  never give away critical personal information such as bank account details over the phone. e-commerce platforms such as taobao would typically have a customer's bank information already saved in their system, so refunds should be able to be processed automatically.  fake refund scams also often offer you more than what you paid for, which would rarely happen in a real situation. if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.  as for internet phishing scams, double check web addresses if you are redirected to them from other landing pages, said kaspersky's mr yeo, or try to access deal pages directly through the legitimate website. google says it has detected and stopped thousands of phishing attacks targeting email accounts of iranian users ahead of the 14 june presidential election. in an online statement, the firm said it had noticed a "significant jump" in the region's overall volume of phishing activity in the last three weeks. the timing and targets suggested the attacks were "politically motivated". friday's poll is the first since 2009 when president mahmoud ahmadinejad won a controversial second term. the election had triggered angry protests, with voters accusing mr ahmadinejad's camp of rigging the results in his favour. google's vice-president of security engineering, eric grosse, said the phishing attacks originated from within iran. phishing attempts to obtain passwords and other private computing information by directing users to fake websites. "for almost three weeks, we have detected and disrupted multiple email-based phishing campaigns aimed at compromising the accounts owned by tens of thousands of iranian users," he said. "the timing and targeting of the campaigns suggest that the attacks are politically motivated in connection with the iranian presidential election on friday." mr grosse said victims targeted in the attacks had received an email containing a link to a web page purporting to perform account maintenance. if they clicked the link, they were taken to a fake google sign-in page, which would steal their username and password. the threat was detected by a phishing detection feature added to the firm's chrome web browser in 2012. mr grosse warned iranian users to take extra measures to protect their accounts from "state-sponsored attacks". in the latest case, users received a message which appeared to come from google itself using the official-looking address: email.settings@gmail.com. it suggested they assign an extra email address to their existing google account to make password recovery easier. the bogus link they were asked to click also contained the search firm's name adding to the appearance of authenticity, google says. however, the attempt was spotted by a safe browsing feature added to google's chrome browser last year. most of the six candidates in friday's election are conservatives close to ayatollah khamenei. the opposition says more than 80 of its supporters were killed in a crackdown over a period of six months after the 2009 election - a figure the government disputes. several have been sentenced to death, and dozens jailed. the two reformist candidates from 2009 - mir hossein mousavi and mehdi karroubi - remain under house arrest. peter says that the cyber-attacks on his company are relentless. "we see tens of different hacking attacks every single week. it is never ending." a senior computer network manager for a global financial services company, peter (who did not want to give his surname, or the name of his employer, due to his firm's anxieties surrounding cyber-security), says they are bombarded from all directions. "we see everything," he says. "staff get emails sent to them pretending to be from the service desk, asking them to reset their log-in passwords. "we see workers being tricked into downloading viruses from hackers demanding ransoms, and we have even had employees sent whatsapp messages pretending to be from the ceo, asking for money transfers. "and having staff working from home during the lockdowns has just made it worse, as it is much harder to keep an eye on everyone." with one in three uk workers currently based exclusively at home, and the same level in the us, this remote working on a vast scale continues to be a major headache for the it security bosses of companies large and small around the world. and studies shows that many firms are not taking the issue as seriously as they should. for example, one in five uk home workers has received no training on cyber-security, according to a recent survey by legal firm hayes connor solicitors.  the report also found that two out of three employees who printed potentially sensitive work documents at home admitted to putting the papers in their bins without shredding them first. meanwhile, a separate uk study last year found that 57% of it decision makers believe that remote workers will expose their firm to the risk of a data breach. "in the rush and panic to set remote working practices up, even simple data protection practices were ignored," says christine sabino, a senior associate at hayes connor. "companies did not provide additional security relating to computers, electronic communication, phone communication." so what can both companies and home working staff do to make things as safe and secure as possible? ted harrington, a san diego-based cyber-security specialist, and author of hackable: how to do application security right, says firms should have started by giving all home workers a dedicated work laptop. while many larger companies may well have done this, not all smaller firms necessarily have the resources to do so, but mr harrington stresses its importance. "supply staff with laptops and other equipment that are owned, controlled and configured by the company," he says. "this alleviates the burden on your people to set things up right, and ensures they follow the security controls the company wants." definitely don't have staff using their personal computers for work, says sam grubb, an arkansas-based cyber-security consultant, and author of forthcoming book how cybersecurity really works. "the main problem with using your own computer to do work is that you are not limited in what you can do on it, nor are you necessarily the only one that uses it," he says. "so while you might not be visiting a shady website to download movies for free, your teenage son could be doing that exact thing on your home laptop without you even knowing. "this makes it much easier for malware or other attacks to happen. this might affect the work you are doing, or in a worst-case scenario, lead to the compromise of co-workers' devices, or other company devices such as servers." mr harrington says that the next step is that companies must set up a vpn or virtual private network, so that remote computers have secure and encrypted connections with the firm's servers and everyone else in the company. mr grubb uses a transport and wildlife analogy to explain how vpns work. "a vpn is like a tunnel between two cities," he says. "instead of driving through the dark forest full of tigers, lions and bears, you drive through the underground tunnel, where no one can see you driving until you reach your destination on the other side." however, even with work laptops, vpns and the latest cyber-security software systems in place, staff can still make damaging mistakes, such as falling prey to a "phishing" email - a malicious email pretending to be a legitimate one in order to trick someone into handing over sensitive data. currently such scam emails doing the rounds include some that are pretending to be informing the targeted person that they have been exposed to covid-19, or invited to have the vaccine. they ask the recipient to clink on the link, which then tries to download malware onto his or her computer. new tech economy is a series exploring how technological innovation is set to shape the new emerging economic landscape. for this reason, both mr harrington and mr grubb say that it is essential that businesses give staff proper cyber-security training. "firms should be providing training to help their employees understand the threats they face," says mr grubb.  ms sabino adds that both staff and their bosses need to do their bit. she says, for example, that employees should avoid talking about work on social media, while firms should give shredders to home workers who need to print things out. with even the most cyber-security aware home workers just one click away from making a mistake, mr harrington says that firms need policies in place so that staff know who to immediately report a threat to. "if an employee falls victim to an attack, make sure that they know a) who to contact, and b) that their outreach is welcome and won't result in termination," he says. "you don't want people afraid of repercussions and thus covering up mistakes." tsedal neeley, a professor of business administration from harvard business school who is an expert on remote working, agrees that home workers should know exactly who to report cyber-security problems to. "engaging with their firm's it/cyber-security experts is crucial," she says. peter, the computer network manager, says this engagement should be frequent. "users should be suspicious of anything that they are not 100% confident about, and it does not hurt to ask your it department. it is better to check than be compromised." three men have been arrested in connection with an internet scam targeting online banking customers. the suspects, one from nigeria and two from romania, were held at a central london hotel on monday night. they are are being questioned on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and money laundering. the arrests followed reports that 2,000 phishing pages, which copy genuine bank sites, were put online to dupe people into entering confidential details. a large number of accounts were then illegally accessed and had money withdrawn. met police officers from the central e-crime unit working in partnership with investigators from the serious organised crime agency (soca) also seized a number of computers. further searches are ongoing in london and the midlands. security experts say a spike in email scams linked to coronavirus is the worst they have seen in years. cyber-criminals are targeting individuals as well as industries, including aerospace, transport, manufacturing, hospitality, healthcare and insurance. phishing emails written in english, french, italian, japanese, and turkish languages have been found. the bbc has tracked five of the campaigns. researchers at the cyber-security firm proofpoint first noticed a strange email being sent to customers in february. the message purported to be from a mysterious doctor claiming to have details about a vaccine being covered up by the chinese and uk governments.  the firm says people who click on the attached document are taken to a spoof webpage designed to harvest login details. it says up to 200,000 of the emails are being sent at a time.  "we have seen 35-plus consecutive days of malicious coronavirus email campaigns, with many using fear to convince victims to click," says sherrod degrippo from the company's threat research and detection team. proofpoint says three to four variations are launched each day. "it's obvious these campaigns are returning dividends for cyber-criminals," says ms degrippo. the best way to see where a link will take you is to hover your mouse cursor over it to reveal the true web address. if it looks dodgy, don't click.   researchers at cyber-security firm mimecast flagged this scam a few weeks ago. on the morning they detected it, they saw more than 200 examples in just a few hours.  if a member of the public clicked on "access your funds now", it would take them to a fake government webpage, encouraging them to input all their financial and tax information. "do not respond to any electronic communication in relation to monies via email," says carl wearn, head of e-crime at mimecast. "and certainly do not click on any links in any related message. this is not how hmrc would advise you of a potential tax refund." hackers pretending to represent the world health organization (who) claim that an attached document details how recipients can prevent the disease's spread. "this little measure can save you," they claim. but proofpoint says the attachment doesn't contain any useful advice, and instead infects computers with malicious software called agenttesla keylogger.  this records every keystroke and sends it to the attackers, a tactic that allows them to monitor their victims' every move online. to avoid this scam, be wary of emails claiming to be from who, as they are probably fake. instead visit its official website or social media channels for the latest advice. the subject line reads: covid-19 - now airborne, increased community transmission.  it is designed to look like it's from the centres for disease control and prevention (cdc). it uses one of the organisation's legitimate email addresses, but has in fact been sent via a spoofing tool. cofense, the cyber-defence provider, first detected the scam and describes it as an example of hackers "weaponising fear and panic".  it says the link directs victims to a fake microsoft login page, where people are encouraged to enter their email and password. then victims are redirected to the real cdc advice page, making it seem even more authentic.  of course, the hackers now have control of the email account. cofense says the combination of a "rather good forgery" and a "high stress situation" make for a potent trap. one way to protect yourself is to enable two-factor authentication, so that you have to enter a code texted or otherwise provided to you, to access your email account. this example was reported to malware experts kaspersky. the fake cdc email asks for donations to develop a vaccine, and requests payments be made in the cryptocurrency bitcoin.  the premise is of course ridiculous, but the email address and signature look convincing. overall, kaspersky says it has detected more 513 different files with coronavirus in their title, which contain malware.  "we expect the numbers to grow, of course, as the real virus continues to spread," says david emm, principal security researcher at the firm. easy steps: how to keep safea simple guide:  what are the symptoms?containment: what it means to self-isolatehealth myths: the fake advice you should ignoremaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreak a web server belonging to the games company electronic arts which had been hacked and was hosting a phishing website, has now been fixed. the website that was put in place by hackers asked users to enter their apple ids - the credentials needed to access services like apple's itunes. a second screen then asked users to enter further personal information, including credit card details. ea said the problem had been found and hacking attempts had been stopped. paul mutton, from netcraft, the internet security company that uncovered the hack, said in a blog that it was likely a vulnerability in an online calendar application hosted on the web server had been exploited by the attackers. the calendar based on the web server was an old version of software that had since been updated, he said. "the mere presence of old software can often provide sufficient incentive for a hacker to target one system over another, and to spend more time looking for additional vulnerabilities," he wrote. once a user has entered their apple id and password on the fake website they are then asked to verify their name, date of birth, phone number and credit card details among other information. users were then directed to the legitimate apple id website, said mr mutton. it was reported earlier in the year that other servers belonging to ea had been hacked, causing problems for users trying to log on to online games and services. a hacking group known as derp posted a tweet claiming responsibility for that attack. mr mutton said he had reported the most recent problems to electronic arts. in a statement to the bbc, ea said: "we found it, we have isolated it, and we are making sure such attempts are no longer possible." michael sutton, from security research firm zscaler, said that hackers using legitimate websites to host malicious content was now the norm.  "social engineering attacks always involve an element of communication - the victim must be tricked into performing an action such as providing data, clicking on a link, downloading a file, et cetera. attackers have learned that it's far easier to simply infect an already popular web property than to attempt communication with victims directly," he said. users should check that websites are secure before entering any private information, says guidance from get safe online. they should look for a padlock symbol in the browser window frame and they should check that the web address begins with https - the "s" stands for secure. the advice also says that users should check the address in the browser's address bar after arriving at a website to check that it matches what they actually typed. easyjet has admitted that a "highly sophisticated cyber-attack" has affected approximately nine million customers. it said email addresses and travel details had been stolen and that 2,208 customers had also had their credit and debit card details "accessed". the firm has informed the uk's information commissioner's office while it investigates the breach. easyjet first became aware of the attack in january. it told the bbc that it was only able to notify customers whose credit card details were stolen in early april. "this was a highly sophisticated attacker. it took time to understand the scope of the attack and to identify who had been impacted," the airline told the bbc. "we could only inform people once the investigation had progressed enough that we were able to identify whether any individuals have been affected, then who had been impacted and what information had been accessed." stolen credit card data included the three digital security code - known as the cvv number - on the back of the card itself. easyjet added that it had gone public now in order to warn the nine million customers whose email addresses had been stolen to be wary of phishing attacks.  it said that it would notify everyone affected by 26 may. it did not provide details about the nature of the attack or the motives, but said its investigation suggested hackers were targeting "company intellectual property" rather than information that could be used in identity theft. "there is no evidence that any personal information of any nature has been misused, however, on the recommendation of the ico, we are communicating with the approximately nine million customers whose travel details were accessed to advise them of protective steps to minimise any risk of potential phishing. "we are advising customers to be cautious of any communications purporting to come from easyjet or easyjet holidays." in response to the breach, the ico  said that it was investigating. "people have a right to expect that organisations will handle their personal information securely and responsibly. when that doesn't happen, we will investigate and take robust action where necessary." it also warned people to be on the lookout for phishing attacks and directed them to its advice on its website on how to spot such scams. phishing attempts - which see criminals sending emails with links to fake web pages that steal personal data - have risen exponentially during the coronavirus crisis.  google is blocking more than 100 million phishing emails every day to gmail users. it is likely that hackers will take advantage of the fact people are cancelling flights because of the uncertainty related to the spread of covid-19, said ray walsh, a digital privacy expert at proprivacy. "anybody who has ever purchased an easyjet flight is advised to be extremely wary when opening emails from now on," he said. "phishing emails that leverage data stolen during the attack could be used as an attack vector at any point in the future.  "as a result, it is important for customers to be vigilant whenever they receive unsolicited emails or emails that appear to be from easyjet, as these could be fake emails which link to cloned websites designed to steal your data." the coronavirus pandemic has meant an end to much global travel, leaving airlines struggling financially. "these are already turbulent times for all companies within the aviation industry but the situation has just got significantly worse for easyjet," said mike fenton, chief executive of threat detection firm redscan. "to add to the company's woes, it is now has to explain how the personal records of nine million customers were able to be accessed. "when it comes to cyber security, the airline industry doesn't have a great record. the british airways breach in 2018 should have been a wake-up call and passenger confidence is likely to be at an all-time low after this." british airways announced that the personal details of more than half a million of its customers had been harvested by hackers in september 2018.  initially it said that only 380,000 transactions were affected and that the data did not include travel or passport details. the ico later issued a record £183m fine over the breach. compensation pay-outs to customers could see that reach £3bn. under gdpr (general data protection regulation), if easyjet is found to have mishandled customer data, it could face fines of up to 4% of its annual worldwide turnover. "it is impossible to determine yet whether or not there has been negligence but, if so, consumers could be eligible to claim compensation, raising the financial penalty imposed on the airline significantly," said aman johal from law firm your lawyers. millions of easyjet customers' details of some sort or another have been accessed by hackers - but even more people now need to be vigilant. generally, personal details can be used by fraudsters to access bank accounts, open accounts and take out loans in the innocent victims' names, make fraudulent purchases, or sell on to other criminals. the risks to those whose card details have been compromised are clear. their provider should already have stopped the card, a new one will be issued, and they will need to sort out any regular payments coming from that card. following a similar data breach at british airways in 2018, some found this a frustrating and time-consuming task. millions of people whose email addresses and travel details have been accessed will need to change passwords, and be wary of any unexpected transactions. everyone else, particularly easyjet customers whose details have not been affected, must be alert to other unsolicited emails and messages.  fraudsters will no doubt pose as easyjet, banks, or the authorities and claim to be dealing with this latest breach. they are simply trying to steal personal details themselves. are you an easyjet customer? have you been a victim of the cyber-attack? share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist.  whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy the wisconsin republican party has said hackers stole $2.3m (£1.7m) from the its effort to support president donald trump's re-election. the party contacted the fbi and agents are investigating the matter, chairman andrew hitt said in a statement on thursday. mr hitt said the hackers manipulated campaign invoices to steal the funds. in the upcoming presidential election wisconsin is seen as a key state - one mr trump won narrowly in 2016. the party's invoices for vendors were altered so that when they paid the invoices, the money did not go to the vendors, mr hitt said. he noted it appeared to have begun as a phishing attempt. a party spokesman said it appeared no data was stolen. the millions were taken from the wisconsin republicans' federal account. mr hitt said that state officials were warned about such cyberattacks at the party's national convention in august. the volunteer hackers protecting the us election analysis by joe tidy, bbc cyber-security reporter the information security world is tense right now waiting and watching for cyber attacks that could affect the us election. this type of attack was probably not on many people's lists of expected hacks. it sounds like an almost standard case of something called business email compromise (bec). effectively the hackers have either gained access to or spoofed an email address to put themselves between the wisconsin republican party hq and one of their suppliers. the party then transferred the money to the hackers instead of its campaign partner. in many cases of bec, banks are able to reverse the transaction and return at least some of the money to the victims. the republican party will be hoping that this is what happens here. the reported hack comes as mr trump and democratic rival joe biden are both making a final push this week to secure wisconsin ahead of the 3 november election.  there have also been hundreds of attempted attacks on the wisconsin democratic campaign, a spokeswoman told the associated press. the midwestern state is one of a handful of core battleground states - areas which could realistically go to the republicans or democrats - this election season. candidates will need to win in several states like wisconsin in order to win the presidency. how is donald trump doing in the polls? mr trump won wisconsin by fewer than 23,000 votes in 2016. recent polls have consistently shown a tight race, usually with mr biden ahead. how do us presidential elections work?: all you need to knowfour years of president trump: a look back at his time in office on bbc iplayer (uk only) a crackdown on "phishing" scams has been announced by 15 of the top technology companies. email providers such as google and microsoft will work with companies like paypal and the bank of america to improve authentication. phishing attacks typically involve scammers posing as familiar companies in an attempt to trick users into sharing personal information. this co-ordinated effort aims to make this more difficult. thedomain-based message authentication, reporting and conformance(dmarc) - as the coalition is known - has released plans to produce a "feedback loop" between email receivers and senders. the initiative is the first significant attempt to bring together both email and service providers along with key security organisations. dmarc said this industry-wide involvement - which covers the receivers, senders and intermediaries of email use - will mean email providers will for the first time be able to reliably filter out unwanted emails, rather than use "complex and imperfect measurements" to determine threats. it will mean an agreed standard for authenticating legitimate emails arriving at the inboxes of aol, gmail, hotmail and yahoo customers. it will verify messages from facebook, paypal, american greetings, bank of america, fidelity and linkedin. "email phishing defrauds millions of people and companies every year, resulting in a loss of consumer confidence in email and the internet as a whole," explained paypal's brett mcdowell, chair of dmarc. "industry co-operation - combined with technology and consumer education - is crucial to fight phishing." email security firms agari, cloudmark, ecert, return path and trusted domain project complete the collaboration. more companies will join the open standard as it is developed. paypal spokesman rob skinner explained how the initiative is intended to make things easier for the most vulnerable part of the security chain - the human. "half the problem is, with the best will in the world and improving technology, ultimately it's still down to the user to decide [to open an email]," he told the bbc. "the key point is trying to block emails from getting to someone's inbox - taking the worry and concern out of people's minds and doing it for them." as one of the internet's most ubiquitous payment companies, paypal often finds itself impersonated by scammers. "we've acknowledged it's been an issue," mr skinner said. "we've had a stack of initiatives over the years to cut down on it. fraudsters target any company that is well known, has a lot of customers, and operates across the globe. "we recognise our responsibility to do something about it." we usually hear about phishing attacks in the technology world - when impostors try to scam people out of money by tricking them into handing over their personal details.  but now it's said the technique has found its way into pop music. producer richard x says he's received contact from fraudsters "disguising" themselves as industry workers requesting he sends them music. "they get a little bit of information by searching databases, publishers catalogues or reading forums," says x, sat in his london studio.  "that's enough for them to write a cheeky email disguised as someone from the management, touring agency or someone related to the artists in an attempt to get you, the producer, to send them finished tracks or demos." richard x, who has worked with kelis, m.i.a. and the original sugababes, puts this recent development down to the actions of tech-savvy "rabid fans".  "you might think that someone wouldn't fall for these emails, but in a high turnover, fast environment, which making records is now, things are needed instantly. it's possible that you would send something," explains x. "i know of a producer recently who did send out the demos and the masters to a random person." online leaks of music traditionally come from a range of sources - everything from the artist passing new music on to a friend to a journalist leaking a promotional copy or even a producer being careless with a storage hard drive.  this development comes as many of the collaborations which regularly fill the top 40 have been recorded without the artists ever having been in the same room. instead, parts of songs are recorded and exchanged online via email, digital lockers or upload sites. earlier this month, he tweeted a link to a pop phishing email he'd been sent. "not to encourage things, but it does seem like an interesting way of trying to get hold of these unreleased gems," he says. "the fan-driven mentality, and rightly so, is that they want to hear new things and will do anything to get the exclusive. i personally don't think it's a big evil piracy network behind it all." whatever the motives, paul smernicki, head of digital at universal records, says it's a broad problem his company is increasingly on the look out for.  "people through the label have been made aware to be vigilant," he says. "with that particular method, the intent can only be interpreted as malicious." he says music leaking online from his artists (universal - the world's biggest record label looks after everyone from lady gaga to take that) is a "relatively frequent" occurrence. "if someone walked up to you in the street dressed as a policeman and tried to get you to do something, that would be pretty shocking," says smernicki.  "the ingenuity is surprising, but not the intent." he says pop phishing is among the acts of fraudsters who "really want to damage an album campaign" and that if music fans can get access to tracks for free, it could hurt sales. "some people, lots of people, may not go and buy the album," he says. "people invest loads of time, energy and emotion into doing their jobs and doing them as well as they possibly can. to have the rug pulled out from under is really hard." he says security can be an issue and points to jay-z and kanye west's watch the throne album as an "extreme example" of artists taking music protection into their own hands.  the rappers held tracks on fingerprint-protected hard drives and recorded in pop-up studios in international hotel rooms.  from it being mastered to it hitting shelves, it's not unusual for a track or an album to be sat waiting for months.  brits critics choice winner emeli sandé finished her debut album last year, but it doesn't get released until 13 february. she says she hoped it wouldn't leak, but that it feels "almost like an inevitability now that someone will find it and it will get out". "it's a real shame if it affects actual sales," sandé told newsbeat.  "people don't understand how much work goes into making a record. how much time and how hard it is to even get it released. i feel quite upset that it happens." the ting tings' second album, sounds from nowheresville, has already appeared online despite not being released until march. multi-instrumentalist with the salford band, jules de martino, takes a different view.  "art should always have a price. i'm not a big fan of people stealing stuff, even if it's a penny," he explains.  "but if you're doing your stuff honestly, creatively and it's good, then i think you will stay in the game as long as you can - sales apart. "if you're doing all right that price comes back because you're selling it in another form, whether it's tickets, t-shirts or records." two men have been charged over a £1m email scam which took money from the bank accounts of hundreds of students. police said students on government loans were sent phishing emails urging them to provide their banking details. damola olatunji, 26, of hamsterley avenue, manchester, and amos mwangi, 25, of rochdale way, deptford, london, face a charge of conspiracy to defraud. they were remanded in custody until 17 february by westminster magistrates' court, central london. their next appearance is due to be at southwark crown court in south-east london. mr olatunji is also charged with possession of an article for use in fraud. five other people arrested in the investigation have been bailed until march pending further inquiries. they are a 25-year-old woman arrested in manchester, a 49-year-old woman and a 31-year-old man held in stratford, north-east london. two men, aged 38 and 35, were also detained in bolton, greater manchester. they were all arrested on suspicion of conspiracy to defraud and money-laundering offences and bailed until march. the metropolitan police's e-crime unit was first alerted to the scam in august and worked with the student loans company, the banking industry and internet service providers during its investigation. phishing is the sending of a legitimate-looking email in an attempt to gather personal and financial information from recipients. russian spies are targeting organisations trying to develop a coronavirus vaccine in the uk, us and canada, security services have warned. the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) said the hackers "almost certainly" operated as "part of russian intelligence services". it did not specify which organisations had been targeted, or whether any information had been stolen. but it said vaccine research had not been hindered by the hackers. russia has denied responsibility. "we do not have information about who may have hacked into pharmaceutical companies and research centres in great britain. we can say one thing - russia has nothing at all to do with these attempts," said dmitry peskov, a spokesman for president putin, according to the tass news agency. the warning was published by an international group of security services: the uk's ncscthe canadian communication security establishment (cse)the united states department for homeland security (dhs) cyber-security infrastructure security agency (cisa) the us national security agency (nsa) one expert said it was "plausible" that, despite the kremlin's denials, russian spies were involved. "the received wisdom is that in cyber-space, attribution is difficult but not impossible," commented emily taylor from the chatham house think tank. "usually the security services are much more hedgy in their language if they think there is any doubt.  "cozy bear [the named group] has been implicated in past cyber-attacks and has left quite a trail, and there are fairly good links to the russian state itself." in recent years, western security agencies have become more willing to call out hackers targeting companies and organisations in their countries in the hope it will deter them.  but the latest accusations are more unusual since officials are directly pointing the finger at russian spies rather than talking generally about "state-backed hackers" or using other more cautious references.  and they are also challenging them over targeting something that the general public recognises as being highly sensitive - coronavirus vaccine research - rather than simply some company or government department's information.  however, on another level we should not be too surprised by the claim.  understanding vaccine research and other details about the pandemic has become a top target for intelligence agencies around the world and many others, including western spies, are likely to be active in this space. the uk, us and canadian agencies said the hackers had exploited software flaws to get access to vulnerable computer systems, and had used malware called wellmess and wellmail to upload and download files from infected machines. they are also said to have tricked individuals into handing over login credentials with spear-phishing attacks. phishing emails are designed to trick the recipient into handing over their personal informationspear phishing is a targeted and personalised form of the attack, designed to trick a specific individual. often the email appears to come from a trusted contact, and may include some personal information to make the message seem more convincing but one cyber-security expert said the russians were unlikely to be the only ones involved in such a campaign. "they have lots of people, we have lots of people, the americans have even more people, as do the chinese," commented prof ross anderson from the university of cambridge's computer laboratory. "they are all trying to steal this kind of stuff all the time." the ncsc calls out a hacking group called apt29, also known as the dukes or cozy bear. it says it is more than 95% certain that the group is part of the russian intelligence services. cozy bear was first identified as being a significant "threat actor" in 2014, according to the american cyber-security firm crowdstrike. it describes the group as being "aggressive" in its tactics and "nothing if not flexible, changing tool sets frequently". the unit has previously been implicated in hacking the us democratic national committee (dnc) during the us presidential election in 2016. in 2017, it attacked norway's labour party, defence and foreign ministries, as well as the country's national security service. the report includes recommendations that can help protect organisations from cyber-attacks. "throughout 2020, apt29 has targeted various organisations involved in covid-19 vaccine development in canada, the united states and the united kingdom, highly likely with the intention of stealing information and intellectual property relating to the development and testing of covid-19 vaccines," it said. uk foreign secretary dominic raab said: "it is completely unacceptable that the russian intelligence services are targeting those working to combat the coronavirus pandemic. "while others pursue their selfish interests with reckless behaviour, the uk and its allies are getting on with the hard work of finding a vaccine and protecting global health." on thursday, the uk government also said russians had "almost certainly" sought to interfere in the 2019 uk general election through illicitly-acquired documents. "we worked very closely with our allies to ensure we would take measures to keep that information safe," said white house spokeswoman kayleigh mcenany, "and we continue to do so and we are aware of those activities." by tara mckelvey in washington dc "the national security agency, along with our partners, remains steadfast in its commitment to protecting national security by collectively issuing this critical cyber-security advisory as foreign actors continue to take advantage of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic," said nsa cyber-security director anne neuberger.  earlier in 2020, john demers, an assistant attorney general for us national security, warned that hackers working for foreign governments were trying to steal vaccine research.  he said that the first nation to find a vaccine first will gain clout on the world stage with a "significant geopolitical success story". for that reason, hackers have been pursuing vaccine research in several countries. demers and others who work in us intelligence have been watching their activities closely.  now, intelligence experts know more about the goals of the hackers and how they using spear-phishing and malware to get what they want.  fraudsters "will stop at nothing to dupe people, even during the global covid-19 pandemic", a senior police officer has said. it comes after more than 40 cyber scams were reported to the police service of northern ireland (psni) between thursday and sunday. the majority of the reports involved "sextortion". "sextortion" occurs when scammers threaten to publish indecent images of their victim. the psni say the criminals have been targeting people from counties antrim, down, tyrone and londonderry. "scammers are ruthless, unscrupulous individuals who don't care about the impact of their actions on victims, which can sometimes be life changing and which often have a significant impact," said mr walls. "all scammers care about is getting money from their victims.”  he said most of the reports made to police involve an email which says that if the recipient does not pay £2,000 then indecent images of the person will be released. others are phishing emails in which the scammers claim to know the recipient's passwords and will share images of the person if they do not pay a fee. there have also been reports of people being targeted over the phone. “it's really important that parents and guardians know what their loved ones' online activity is, who their children are engaging with and what sites they are visiting," added mr walls. "it's also important people have a conversation with their loved ones, and with each other, so they are aware of the extraordinary lengths scammers will go to and the abhorrent tactics they will employ." a tweet announcing the relaunch of uk high street retailer woolworths has gone viral, despite being fake. the twitter account @ukwoolworths, which has now been deleted, misspelled the shop's name. and it linked to a website that was not active and had, bbc news has learned, been registered only hours earlier.  metro, which appears to have been the first mainstream media outlet to report the fake news, has now corrected its story. very, the company that owns the local rights to the woolworths brand, confirmed it was a hoax. "we own the woolworths trademark in the uk," a spokesman told bbc news.  "the twitter account ukwoolworths is not connected to the very group."  the original tweet read: "here to save 2020.  "woolworths is coming back to your high street, as a physical store.  "a couple of legal things to get sorted but we're full steam ahead at woolworths hq. "we want to get this right, so we need your help.  "what do you want at your uk #yourwoolworths?" ray walsh, scam expert at virtual private network (vpn) company proprivacy, said: "it's not unsurprising that huge numbers of people around the uk have fallen for fake news surrounding the reopening of woolworths. "the brand was a much-loved part of uk shopping history. "and many have fond memories of the retailer. "but the twitter account spreading the hoax was full of typos and spelling mistakes. "this alone should have been enough to make it obvious that something extremely fishy was going on. "the important take away from all of this is how social engineering and nostalgia can be used to trick people. "and it serves as an important reminder of why people need to think carefully when using the internet to avoid falling for scams and phishing attacks." woolworths closed its doors for good in 2008, owing £385m.  the shops, famous for their pic'n'mix sweets, also sold kitchen and garden equipment and toys.  one of the uk's oldest chains it had 815 stores, many of which were taken over by shops such as wilko and poundland. the woolworths name remains in use in australia, new zealand and south africa as an unrelated retail brand. this was the fake news story 2020 needed - and it might seem less important than harmful coronavirus conspiracy theories or political disinformation, which have spread on wildfire on social media in recent months.  but it does teach us some important lessons about how and why disinformation spreads on social media.   we tend to share posts that we want to be true or that confirm our biases - who isn't missing woolworth's pic'n'mix, especially during a pandemic?  that partly explains why the tweet from the fake woolworth's account - which kept spelling the name of the chain wrong - went so viral. but it also highlights the need for verification - and the role of the media in amplifying disinformation.  a quick ring around would have confirmed that woolworth's is not re-opening - but that did not stop a number of news outlets covering this fake twitter account.  xbox live users are being urged to check their accounts after some say they were scammed by a fake email. the phishing attack sent users to a fake site where they were asked to input personal details like addresses, emails and credit card details. microsoft is investigating and says a small percentage of users are affected. "we take the security of the xbox live service seriously and work to improve it against evolving threats," a microsoft spokesman said. "very occasionally, though, we are contacted by members regarding alleged unauthorized access to their accounts by outside individuals." the spokesman continued: "we can confirm that only a small percentage of xbox live customers have been affected here in the uk.  "we work closely with impacted members directly to resolve any unauthorized changes to their accounts and, as always, highly recommend all xbox live users follow our account security guidance in order to protect their account details." microsoft confirmed there had been no breach in the security of xbox live itself. the company says there is advice on its website about staying safe online but advises that people should never give out passwords or email addresses. it says users should never type personal information into websites unless they are sure that they are genuine. jason hart, md of cryptocard and a former ethical hacker, said: "xbox customers are finding that they might have had more than £100 pilfered from their accounts. "this is the third instance of hacking to hit the gaming industry in as many months and it is clear that hackers are finding it all too easy to steal gamers' identities and access the financial information they need to make off with users cash." "they're exploiting the fear, uncertainty and doubt people are experiencing during the pandemic, and using the anxiety and desperation to get people to buy things or click on things they wouldn't have otherwise," says morgan wright, a former senior adviser to the us department of state anti-terrorism assistance programme. he's talking about the scammers and criminals that inhabit the "dark web" who have found a new angle - anxiety over covid-19. mr wright, who is now chief security adviser at security software company sentinelone, used to teach behavioural analysts at the us national security agency (nsa) about the exploitation of human behaviour.  he is now seeing some of those techniques being used on the dark web, an encrypted part of the internet that can be accessed using popular networks such as tor. the tor browser is privacy-focused, meaning it can obscure who is using it and what data is being accessed. it offers bad actors a way to operate with a degree of impunity, as law enforcement find it much more difficult to track down criminals that use it. tor is a way to access the internet that requires software, known as the tor browser, to use it. the name is an acronym for the onion router. just as there are many layers to the vegetable, there are many layers of encryption on the network. it was originally designed by the us naval research laboratory, and continues to receive funding from the us state department. it attempts to hide a person's location and identity by sending data across the internet via a very circuitous route involving several "nodes" - which, in this context, means using volunteers' pcs and computer servers as connection points. encryption applied at each hop along this route makes it very hard to connect a person to any particular activity. to the website that ultimately receives the request, it appears as if the data traffic comes from the last computer in the chain - known as an "exit node" - rather than the person responsible. since the beginning of the global pandemic, marketplaces on the dark web have seen a rise in covid-19 related products and services. sought-after n95 masks, gowns, gloves and the drug chloroquine have all been listed on these marketplaces. last month, security software firm intsights found blood allegedly belonging to recovered coronavirus patients was even being offered for sale.  criminals hope a heightened sense of fear will make people rush to buy these products, and as a result these items are not cheap; an australian institute of criminology report found the average fake vaccine was being sold for about $370 (£300), while one supposedly sourced from china was selling for between $10-15,000 (£8-12,000). one of the reasons for the rise in such sales may be because many fraudsters are having to turn from their normal methods of making money on the dark web - such as selling fake flights booked using stolen airmiles - because these industries are currently dormant.  many criminals also see an opportunity - as the majority of people are working from home, there is a greater chance of lax cyber security in place.  "there was suddenly a huge shift [on the dark web] of talking about vulnerabilities in collaboration software when they realised people were going to be working from home," says intsights chief security officer etay maor.  more technology of business how coronavirus is changing nhs technologythe robot assistant that can guess what you wantsolar power moves towards a breakthrough stepthe stealthy drones that fly like insectsthe secret chemical cocktails behind coronavirus testing phishing scams have also been on the rise. these are where fraudsters pretend to be a different organisation or person by email, hoping the person will provide some login details or personal data, which can then be used to steal money or someone's identity.  "the phishing attacks started with those pretending to be from the nhs, and then extended to secondary organisations that are related to covid-19 like banks or hmrc emailing about funding, grants or being furloughed," says javvad malik, security advocate at training company knowbe4. "now there are covid-19 related phishing templates making their way into all of the phishing kits that are available on the dark web - meaning people can imitate apple or linkedin with a set of standard templates," he adds. in addition, many services and products, including phishing kits are being offered at discount in "coronavirus sales". "there are people who have been specialising in phishing pages, shady vpns or spamming services for a number of years, who are now offering discounts because they believe it's the best time to make money and spread these kits," says liv rowley, threat intelligence analyst at blueliv, a computer and network security firm. the dark web was designed by the us naval research laboratory, with the idea of enabling human rights activists and people within the military to talk and collaborate in a secure, anonymous way.  while the introduction of bitcoin enabled criminals to make money on the dark web, there remains a huge number of users that opt to use it for its initial purpose - speaking to others anonymously on forums. according to mr malik, these forums have often been used to fuel conspiracy theories around the virus. "conspiracies about 5g being the vehicle of this virus, or bioweaponry or that bill gates is the man behind it tend to crop up on the dark web," he says. as social media companies and other news outlets crack down on misinformation, many others may be pushed onto the dark web. these forums often act as a gateway to marketplaces, for people to plug their products or services to a targeted audience. this could be a way for fraudsters to make further money in the months to come.  the flipside to this is that many journalists, activists and citizens may be using the dark web to communicate in countries where there is a lot of censorship. tor versions of many news outlets, including the bbc and new york times, may be used if the original sites are blocked by governments or states, for instance.  netblocks, a digital rights advocacy group says that many countries have cut access to the web in different ways, as they seek to control the flow of information about the coronavirus outbreak. two ransomware groups had said they would not attack any hospitals or healthcare organisations during the pandemic, but as foreign secretary dominic raab outlined in a recent press briefing, there is evidence that criminal gangs are actively targeting national and international organisations that are responding to the pandemic - including hospitals. "these organisations are targeted because of how vulnerable they are at this time and because of the likelihood that a ransom would be paid," says charity wright, cyber threat intelligence adviser at intsights. the co-ordination and orchestration of many of these attacks often begin on the dark web. "we are seeing more offerings on the dark web specifically for healthcare-related information and for targeting healthcare facilities and doctors. there's even a database someone has created on the dark web with all kinds of information about medical staff," says etay maor from intsights.  at its core, the dark web may still be being used for the same reasons it was intended to be used for - from a privacy and security perspective. but criminals are using this to try to exploit a global crisis for financial gain. "that's the double-edged sword that as a society we haven't quite worked out: how do we safeguard freedom of speech and ensure privacy, but at the same time track down and stop people abusing those freedoms?" says javvad malik.  facebook have stepped up their battle against phishing and malware scammers by partnering with security firm websense. as of next week, users will be warned if they are about to be taken to a malicious website. the social network has suffered to date as many of its 700 million users unwittingly click on dangerous links supposedly posted by their friends. such attacks usually trick users into sharing passwords or data. facebook already tells users if they are about to visit an external site, but the current set up makes no distinction between friendly and dangerous sites. the new technology will present a warning screen whenever it suspects a page poses a threat to the users, giving details of the risk. from here, users are encouraged to return to the previous page.  if they wish, users can continue to the intended page, albeit very much at their own risk. both facebook and websense will hope the extra measures will be enough to deter potential scammers from focusing their efforts on the network. scams regularly catch out hundreds of thousands of users at a time. "there's over 700 million users on facebook," websense's spencer parker told the bbc.  "as a piece of real estate, it's extremely profitable to be targeted by malware writers." the protection will be powered by websense's "threatseeker cloud", a system which stores a database of known malicious urls. the system can also detect unknown dangerous urls by assessing threats in real-time. this means harmful urls can be blocked even before they are known to the company - cutting off a key tactic used by phishers in which constantly changing urls fool database-driven protection. in addition, the system will "follow" links made using popular url shorteners - such as bit.ly and ow.ly - to verify their safety. due to the nature of how we interact with our friends, mr parker says phishing attacks on facebook are much harder to prevent than other commonly used techniques. "one of the things with facebook, of course, is that you have that element of trust in a social network. if one of your friends posts something, you automatically trust it more than if it just received as a spam email. "as more of these 'friend in the middle' attacks happen, you start to trust your friends less." a man living in bognor regis - on the uk south coast - is one of three individuals charged over a major twitter hack, according to the us department of justice. californian authorities filed felony charges against mason sheppard, 19.  the uk's national crime agency (nca) confirmed it had searched a property in bognor regis with police on friday.  a teenager in tampa and nima fazeli, 22, of orlando, were also charged in florida. us attorney david l anderson said the arrests proved "nefarious hacking... for fun or profit" did not pay off.  twitter accounts of multiple high-profile us figures were hijacked in an apparent bitcoin scam on 15 july. they included former president barack obama, amazon boss jeff bezos, entrepreneur elon musk, microsoft founder bill gates, democratic presidential hopeful joe biden and reality star kim kardashian west, who all falsely tweeted out requests for bitcoin donations. in his statement, us attorney anderson said: "there is a false belief within the criminal hacker community that attacks like the twitter hack can be perpetrated anonymously and without consequence."   he added: "criminal conduct over the internet may feel stealthy to the people who perpetrate it, but there is nothing stealthy about it.  in particular, i want to say to would-be offenders, break the law, and we will find you." major us twitter accounts hacked in bitcoin scamtwitter hack: what went wrong and why it matterstwitter hack: staff tricked by phone spear-phishing scam in florida, hillsborough state attorney andrew warren filed 30 felony charges against the teenager, 17, who cannot be named, for "scamming people across america". the charges include organised fraud and fraudulent use of personal information.  "as a crypto-currency, bitcoin is difficult to track and recover if stolen in a scam," mr warren said. "these crimes were perpetrated using the names of famous people and celebrities, but they're not the primary victims here. this 'bit-con' was designed to steal money from regular americans from all over the country, including here in florida. "this massive fraud was orchestrated right here in our backyard, and we will not stand for that." the charges against the teenager include 17 counts of communication fraud, 10 counts of fraudulent use of personal information, one count of fraudulent use of personal information with over $100,000 (£76,340) or 30 or more victims, one count of organised fraud and one count of access to computers or electronic devices without authority. "he's a 17 year-old kid who apparently just graduated high school," said state attorney warren. "but no make no mistake, this was not an ordinary 17-year-old. this was a highly sophisticated attack on a magnitude not seen before." he added that the investigation to "discover the perpetrator" was a collaboration between the florida department of law enforcement, the us attorney's office for the northern district of california, the fbi, the irs, and the secret service. the teenager lives in tampa, florida and so will be prosecuted by hillsborough state authorities.  twitter said in a statement: "we appreciate the swift actions of law enforcement in this investigation and will continue to cooperate as the case progresses. "for our part, we are focused on being transparent and providing updates regularly." after the hack, twitter said the hackers had targeted its employees "with access to internal systems and tools". it added that "significant steps" had been taken to limit access to such internal systems and tools while the company's investigation continued. according to bbc cyber-security reporter joe tidy, the consensus in the information security community is that twitter's employees were likely duped by a spear-phishing attack via a phone call. this involves using friendly persuasion and trickery to get victims to hand over crucial information that enables hackers to infiltrate a company's systems.  a 21-year-old man has admitted hacking into nintendo's servers, leaking details about unreleased products and possessing child sexual abuse images. ryan hernandez, known online as ryan west and ryanrocks, stole and leaked information about the nintendo switch before it was released. when fbi agents seized his devices in 2019, they also found he had downloaded child sexual abuse images and videos. he pleaded guilty to the charges and will be sentenced in april. in 2016, hernandez and an associate had used a "phishing" attack to trick a nintendo employee into handing over their login details, the us department of justice (doj) said. he used these to download confidential files and information about the nintendo switch, which he leaked to the public. in 2017, when hernandez was still under 18, the fbi visited him at his parents' home, in california.  he told the officers he would stop hacking and understood the consequences if he continued. but he had resumed his activity in 2018, the doj said. he hacked into a nintendo server and stole developer tools and information about unreleased games, boasting on social media about his finds. when the fbi returned to his home, in june 2019, they found devices designed to access stolen video games as well as thousands of stolen nintendo files. they also found more than a thousand images and videos of child sexual abuse in a folder he named "bad stuff". under the terms of his plea agreement, prosecutors will recommend hernandez spends three years in prison. however, the sentence will be decided by a judge and he could be given a 20-year term for possession of the child abuse images. hernandez has agreed to pay nintendo damages of about $260,000 (£199,000) and will also registered as a sex offender following his conviction. a gang demanded an £800,000 bitcoin ransom in a cyber attack on a firm owned by kent county council, and leaked its data on the dark web. kent commercial services (kcs) delivers services and supplies to public authorities, including protective equipment during the covid-19 crisis. no ransom was paid and no personal data relating to taxpayers was stolen, kcs said. the information commissioner said kcs had been given data protection advice. kcs chief executive john burr said: "the timing of this attack is particularly malicious and challenging given the current covid-19 pandemic." the local democracy reporting service was told the attack bore "the hallmarks of starting with a phishing email that was used to introduce a virus that then compromised the network". the hackers encrypted the firm's systems and data and demanded payment to release and repair them on 2 april. stolen data that went on the dark web contained business and corporate information relating to business activities of kcs, based in aylesford. it took the company over four weeks to get the majority of systems back online with additional security, with remaining systems going live in the next two weeks. the firm, which has an annual revenue of about £350m, is owned by the council but operates independently. a spokesman for the information commissioner's office said: "we were made aware of this incident and looked into the details. we provided data protection advice to the organisation and concluded no further action was necessary at this time." when david bale received a call from his bank to tell him his account had been hacked, he was naturally concerned. the call had come from what looked like a genuine tsb number, but it was a spoof and the caller was a fraudster. impersonation scams such as this nearly doubled to 15,000 cases in the first half of the year, according to new figures from banking trade body uk finance. the criminal persuaded mr bale that funds needed to be transferred to a "safe account", so he allowed payments totalling nearly £6,000 to be made. "i felt humiliated and very foolish, but they were very convincing. everyone is gullible when you are caught on the hop," the 76-year-old said. "i felt myself in a spider's web, only slowly did i become aware there was something odd." when the con-artist demanded more information mr bale become more suspicious, ending the call and contacting the bank. the money was refunded under a tsb pledge to cover all fraud losses suffered by innocent victims. thousands of other victims of fraud have not been so lucky. most of the biggest players in the uk banking sector are signed up to an agreement to ensure victims of so-called authorised push payment fraud are refunded when they or their bank are not to blame. however, with £126m of losses considered under the new code in the first half of the year, only £48m (38%) was refunded, new data from uk finance shows. banks reveal 10 coronavirus scams to be wary ofaged over 100 and targeted by fraudsters banks consider cases individually, and point out that some people are not refunded as they have ignored scam warnings. however, concerns have been raised over the inconsistency of the code between different banks. regulators have warned that the "right outcomes" had not always resulted in these cases, and uk finance now wants the code to become law. overall, £208m was lost to authorised push payment fraud in the first half of the year, when victims were persuaded to make transfers to people they believe are genuine traders or service providers.  a total of £374m was lost to criminals through other, unauthorised fraud, such as when banking security systems are circumvented. uk finance has warned that criminals are using the coronavirus crisis to trick people - often as they use online or mobile banking for the first time - into giving their personal and financial details. as a result, it expects fraud levels to rise in the latter half of the year and early next year. "criminals have ruthlessly adapted to this pandemic with scams exploiting the rise in people working from home and spending time online," said katy worobec, managing director of economic crime at uk finance. "these range from investment scams promoted on social media and search engines to the use of phishing emails and fake websites to harvest people's data." the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud universities and colleges are being warned by the uk's cyber-security agency that rising numbers of cyber-attacks are threatening to disrupt the start of term. the national cyber security centre has issued an alert after a recent spike in attacks on educational institutions. these have been "ransomware" incidents which block access to computer systems. paul chichester, the ncsc's director of operations, says such attacks are "reprehensible". the return to school, college and university, already facing problems with covid-19, now faces an increased risk from cyber-attacks, which the security agency says could "de-rail their preparations for the new term". the cyber-security body, part of the gchq intelligence agency, says attacks can have a "devastating impact" and take weeks or months to put right. newcastle university and northumbria have both been targeted by cyber-attacks this month, and a group of further education colleges in yorkshire and a higher education college in lancashire faced attacks last month. newcastle university faces cyber-attacknorthumbria university hit by cyber-attackuk universities in blackbaud attackleeds college group under cyber-attackhackers beat university cyber-defences in two hoursstudents blamed for college cyber-attacks the warning from the ncsc follows a spate of ransomware attacks against academic institutions - in which malicious software or "malware" is used to lock out users from their own computer systems, paralysing online services, websites and phone networks. the security agency says this is often followed by a ransom note demanding payment for the recovery of this frozen or stolen data - sometimes with the added threat of publicly releasing sensitive information. universities have frequently been targets of cyber-attacks - with up to a thousand attacks per year in the uk.  attacks can be attempts to obtain valuable research information that is commercially and politically sensitive. universities also hold much personal data about students, staff and, in some cases, former students who might have made donations. earlier this summer more than 20 universities and charities in the uk, us and canada were caught up in a ransomware cyber-attack involving a cloud computing supplier, blackbaud. a freedom of information inquiry in july, carried out by the topline comms digital public relations company, found 35 uk universities, out of 105 responses, had faced ransomware attacks over the past decade. there were 25 which had not had attacks - and a further 43 which declined to answer. one university reported 42 separate ransomware attacks since 2013. the warning from the ncsc highlights the vulnerability of online systems for remote working, as increased numbers of staff are working from home.  "phishing" attacks, where people are tricked into clicking on a malicious link such as in an email, also remains a common pathway for such ransomware attempts, says the advice. mr chichester of the ncsc says: "the criminal targeting of the education sector, particularly at such a challenging time, is utterly reprehensible." "i would strongly urge all academic institutions to take heed of our alert." universities uk says data security has had to become a priority for higher education - and that "protections are in place to manage threats as much as possible". the universities body also says it is working with the ncsc to produce "robust guidance on cyber-security" which will be released later this academic year. the personal data of students and applicants has been stolen in a "sophisticated and malicious" phishing attack at lancaster university. officials said the information had been used to send bogus invoices to undergraduate applicants. "a very small number" of student records, phone numbers and id documents were also accessed, it said. the national crime agency (nca) said the university had suffered a "compromise of its systems". in a statement, the university said it became aware of a breach on friday and has been working to secure its systems. it said the data included names, addresses, phone numbers and emails, linked to students who had applied to join the university in 2019 and 2020. "we are aware that fraudulent invoices are being sent to some undergraduate applicants," it said. "at the present time, we know of a very small number of students who have had their record and id documents accessed." it said the affected students would be contacted with advice.  phishing involves attempts to trick web users into handing over sensitive information. an nca spokesman said: "a criminal investigation led by the nca's national cyber crime unit is now under way, and it would not be appropriate to comment further at this stage." a spokesman for the information commissioner's office said it had received a report from the university and would assess the information provided.  lawyer helen davenport, who advises clients on cyber security, said it was "essential" sectors such as higher education took cyber-security risks "seriously" and put training and software in place to "proactively shield against future attacks". she said "all eyes" would now be on how the attack had impacted students' data and how the university intended "to guard against something likely to be attempted again".  failure to do so "could affect the attractiveness of the university to future candidates", she added. banned 'your wife is hot' ad appears on billboardseals injured fleeing tombstoners and sightseersstuntman injured filming fast & furious 9 have you been affected? contact us at: northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk online child abusers are seeking to take advantage of the coronavirus pandemic, international law enforcement agency europol has warned. europol said it had information that “strongly indicates increased online activity by those seeking child abuse material”. with schools closed and many working from home, children are more likely to be using the internet unsupervised. the agency also said cyber-criminals are taking advantage of the crisis. in online forums and boards, child abusers are ”welcoming opportunities to engage with children”, europol said. it warned that abusers expect children “to be more vulnerable due to isolation, less supervision and greater online exposure”. a spokeswoman said the agency could not share which national law enforcement agencies had raised concerns, but described the increase in activity as a “worrying trend”. a simple guide:  what are the symptoms?avoiding contact: should i self-isolate?stress: how to protect your mental healthlook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreak supervision needed “there are lots of kids at home, off school, and they’re online while their parents are busy working,” said prof alan woodward, a cyber-security expert at the university of surrey. “understand the risk - it’s the very time that these people take advantage of your attention being somewhere else.” the nspcc said technology companies also had a “vital job” to do in protecting children from abusers on their platforms - and report suspicious activity to police. “worryingly, abusers will see this national health emergency as an opportunity to target children who are spending more time online and may be feeling increasingly lonely or anxious because of the lockdown,” said andy burrows, nspcc head of child safety online.  “at home it is now more important than ever for parents and carers to be having regular conversations with their children about what they’re doing online, and that they know they can come to you with any worries they may have.” the nspcc’s net aware website contains information for parents about different social networks and websites, and how to stay safe online. it has recently added articles about video chat and livestreaming services, and the newly-popular netflix party extension. europol’s report also warned of the high level of other cyber-crime, including phishing emails that pretend to contain information about the virus in links and attachments which "aim to profit from the global health concern.” many of the scams being employed are classic cyber-attacks, with a new coronavirus angle in the way they are presented. “the psychology they’re using is the same, but some of the classic human responses are heightened at the moment,” prof woodward said. "fear, doubt, and uncertainty is a classic one to play on.” about £2m has been lost to coronavirus-related fraud in the uk as criminals look to cash in on the crisis. at least 824 people have fallen victim to covid-19 scams this year, according to latest figures from action fraud.  experts say criminals are playing on virus fears and posing as official sources to obtain details from people seeking compensation. a fraud expert told the bbc criminals were trading "templates" on how to defraud people on the dark web. and analysis shows more than 70,000 "malicious" websites have also sprung up since the global pandemic was declared. guidance issued by the national cyber security centre (ncsc) has detected "more uk government branded scams relating to covid-19 than any other subject," since the start of march. there are now 2,500 they are aware of, ranging from fake offers of tax rebates to bogus medicines. the organisation says criminals are primarily targeting people with covid-19 related "phishing" emails.  these attempt to make individuals hand over personal or even bank details, usually by clicking on a link first. a simple guide:  what are the symptoms?new guidance: what must i do?new restrictions: what are they?look-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreak one particular scam asks android users to download a "coronavirus tracker app" to see cases in their area.  in fact, it installs ransomware - a type of software aimed at stealing information - on the user's phone.  emails may "spoof" organisations such as the world health organization (who) or an individual with "dr" in their title, the ncsc says. a known scam purports to be sent on behalf of the government and is offering payments to people "as part of its promise to battle covid-19". the national crime agency (nca) says fraudsters are "adapting their behaviour under lockdown." as a response it says it is "redoubling" its efforts to bring them to justice and is deploying more officers online. so far, the nca has taken down six web domains known to be exploiting the virus. however, one expert believes criminals are also exploiting the fact that people are at home by calling landlines. founder of the fraud alert website and former metropolitan police detective, colin holder, is one of many security experts who monitor dark web criminal forums for signs of new scamming methods. often criminals will share "templates" or guides showing how to crack passwords and defraud people. he said they would now look to cash in on landline numbers they may have purchased in recent years.  "they are trading a vast amount of mobile numbers every day, but a lot of people now don't answer mobile numbers they don't recognise," mr holder said. "if you are at home, you are very likely to answer your landline - so we have seen home numbers being traded quite consistently. this is the time they will look to use them. "criminals never want to spend money, but where else can you get someone else's home phone number from now?" mr holder said criminals will often start the call with the home occupant's name to "lull" them into a conversation. "then if they have some data from an official source it makes them sound legitimate," he added. mr holder said criminals may not even ask for a bank account - they may be looking for a piece of information that could lead to a password or the answer to a commonly used security question such as "mother's maiden name". editor of the proprivacy.com website sean mcgrath has compiled a list of newly registered websites linked to phishing scams or considered "malicious" by security companies since the outbreak. in january, there were 1,772 new urls registered worldwide. in march that jumped to 62,771. they include website titles such as "childcarecorona.com" and "heatingincorona.com".  many appear to look legitimate and feature the same wording and branding as the world health organisation. "at the very least the websites are spreading misinformation," said mr mcgrath. "they are part of campaigns that want to spread a message that is disingenuous. "at the other end these are sites that, by getting you to download something, are installing malware or ransomware on your computer. "the criminality is spreading at the same rate as the virus itself." mr mcgrath said the websites work by preying on a need for information in a time of crisis. most are sent out as a link in a phishing email. action fraud has urged people to watch out for scam emails that appear to be from official sources and to research sites before buying goods online.  it says you should also always install the latest software and app updates to protect devices from the latest threats. for more advice on internet shopping visit the action fraud website. for information on how to update your device, head to the ncsc's dedicated page. the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) said it took down more than 2,000 online coronavirus scams last month.  ncsc said this included 471 fake online shops that were selling fraudulent virus-related items. it coincides with new online safety advice from the agency as part of a national awareness campaign. ncsc also launched an email reporting service, which the public can use to flag any suspicious activity.  numerous other malware and phishing sites have been removed, as well as almost 900 advance-fee fraud schemes, where a large sum of money is promised in return for a one-off payment.  there is growing concern that criminals are hoping to capitalise on the increased usage of the internet during the pandemic. google blocking 18m coronavirus scam emails a daymps summon china-owned firm over security concerns “criminals are seeking to exploit our greater use of emails, video conferencing and other technologies for their advantage," said minister for security james brokenshire. “it’s despicable that they are using the coronavirus outbreak as cover to try to scam and steal." the public is being advised to forward suspicious emails to report@phishing.gov.uk. an automated program will test websites flagged as a result, and block those determined to be suspicious.  joe tidy, cyber-security reporter these scams nearly always start with an email.  the ncsc’s suspicious email reporting service provides a way to report dodgy messages. the problem is that recipients often do not recognise them as such.  i’ve been tracking coronavirus phishing emails since the start of the outbreak.  some are laughable: "please send $250 worth of itunes gift cards for essential lockdown supplies!"  but there are many others that are well designed and hard to spot.  fake emails are in circulation that appear to be from the world health organisation (who). they are cleanly written, have all the correct logos and signatures, and even look like they have been sent from a who email address.  it’s all fake though, and victims who download the accompanying "advice document" may give control of their finances to hackers. the ncsc says the public needs to be highly suspicious. don’t download or click on anything unless you are absolutely certain of the sender, and if the offer seems too good to be true, it probably is. commander karen baxter, national lead for fraud with the city of london police, said the service was developed to help "empower the public" during a time of crisis.  “law enforcement is working closely with the government to ensure the public, and businesses, are as well equipped as possible to fight online harms," she said. “officers have already executed a number of warrants across the country to target and disrupt criminals sending emails and texts designed to steal your money.” social media giants vowed last month to combat the spread of misinformation related to covid-19.  with demand for personal protective equipment (ppe) soaring, an investigation by the news site wired reported that scammers were using linkedin to sell fake goods after being blocked by ebay and amazon. “people do use linkedin to find customers, close deals, and build relationships," the microsoft-owned social network told the publication. "however, it is absolutely not acceptable, especially now, for someone to use their linkedin profile or a post on the platform to inappropriately promote that they have personal protective equipment available to sell." the firm said it was investigating the matter. fake fines and testing kits and bogus requests for donations are among coronavirus-related scams targeting the public, officials have said.  the department for the economy has warned everyone to remain vigilant following a rise in reported fraud. it said being isolated with friends or family could make people lower their guard. action fraud, the uk's reporting centre for fraud, said there has been £4.6m in losses nationwide during lockdown. to combat fraud, trading standards service - a part of the department for the economy - is distributing 'wash your hands of coronavirus scams' leaflets with food packages.  "at a time when we see communities really coming together to support each other, it is despicable that some of our most vulnerable citizens are being targeted so callously," said damien doherty, chief inspector of trading standards service.  he said his organisation did not "want to scare people at a time when they are already anxious", but urged everyone to be vigilant against fraudsters.  mr doherty added that other scams not related to coronavirus "continue unabated". in a statement, the department flagged a range of offences which had been used to target the public during the lockdown. these included:   fake lockdown fines, which involved victims being contacted by bogus text messages claiming to be from the governmentfake testing kits, or those that claim to cure or prevent covid-19fake companies, which purported to offer holiday refundsonline shopping scams, where products are not delivered, or untested lower-quality products were deliveredolder people being targeted on their doorsteps by criminals offering to do their shoppingphishing emails, themed around the coronavirus, aimed at getting people to open malicious attachmentsdoorstep cleaning services, claiming clean drives, letterboxes, and doorways prevent the spread of the viruspeople on benefits being targeted through scams where they are offered help accessing government supportdonations scams, where thieves claim to be collecting for a covid-19 vaccine tips to avoid falling victim to scams can be found on the ni direct website. fraudsters have developed a "worrying" scam based on the government's coronavirus contact tracing app, officials have warned. the smartphone app is being trialled on the isle of wight and is expected to be rolled out nationwide. people across britain have received scam texts purportedly generated by the app, the chartered trading standards institute (ctsi) said. the message links to a bogus website which asks for personal details. the scam text reads: "someone who came in contact with you tested positive or has shown symptoms for covid-19 & recommends you self-isolate/get tested." ctsi lead officer katherine hart said she had received a scam text herself and was aware of recipients across england, scotland and wales. she said: "this worried me because at this particular time we are all at risk. "i am especially concerned that scams themed around the contact tracing app are already appearing, even though the official nhs app has only been released in a limited testing phase on the isle of wight." the app records people's proximity to other app users, allowing potential infection routes to be traced. on tuesday, health secretary matt hancock said the app would be rolled out across england in mid-may. it has been downloaded more than 55,000 times since it was launched on the isle of wight. ms hart said the ctsi had detected an "incredible surge" in coronavirus-related fraud, ranging from fake hand sanitiser advertisements to phishing messages similar to the isle of wight app scam. in april, action fraud, estimated coronavirus fraudsters had conned about £2m from victims. a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exercisehope and loss: your coronavirus storieslook-up tool: check cases in your areatesting: can i get tested for coronavirus? facebook has been host to "dozens" of busy marketplaces and exchanges used by cyber-thieves to buy and sell stolen goods, suggests a security firm. researchers at cisco found 74 groups on facebook that openly traded stolen credit card numbers and bank account details. the groups had a regular membership of about 385,000 people, they found. facebook said it had shut down the groups for breaking the social network's policies on financial fraud. jon munshaw and jaeson schultz from cisco's talos security division detailed their findings in a blog and said they were surprised that the thieves were operating "right out in the open". often, said the pair, pursuing cyber-criminals involved tracing them to hidden servers on dark web addresses, rather than just searching on social media sites. instead, they said, the gangs operating on facebook took few steps to conceal what they were doing. the groups exhibited a wide variety of behaviours that spanned the spectrum from "shady" to "illegal". some openly advertised hacking, phishing and spamming services, while others sought buyers for stolen personal finance information that included both credit card numbers and personal documents, including driving licences and id cards. facebook's own algorithms also proved useful because they "helpfully" suggested other similar-themed groups once the two researchers started looking for card thieves, spammers and other cyber-criminals. across the groups, payment was accepted in crypto-currencies or via payment services such as paypal, said the talos team. some groups used middlemen or "mules" to pipe cash to buyers.  the talos researchers said they initially tried to get the groups shut down by using facebook's own on-site tools but this proved ineffective. to make a bigger impact, the team built up links with facebook's internal security team and passed on detailed information about the criminal marketplaces.  this led to the "majority" of the groups being removed, they said, but some were still active and talos was still working to shut these down.   facebook said it removed groups that "violated" policies against spam and financial fraud. it added: "we know we need to be more vigilant and we're investing heavily to fight this type of activity."  in june this year, tellings home made furniture service "borrowed" £50,000 from a government covid bail-out scheme.  there was just one problem. the company isn't real - the loan went to a criminal gang, who will never pay it back. mark telling, though, does exist and had no idea a company had been set up in his name. when we told him his personal details had been stolen to set up a bogus company to steal money from the government, he was horrified. "that's crazy, shocking, it's going to worry us to death," he said. uk banks get 100,000 loan applications on first dayarrest over £110k covid small business loan fraud mark - who's 47 and works in the building trade - and his partner are saving to buy a house. "i don't know what else is to come," he added. and mark may be one of many. victims could find themselves liable for the debt and have their credit rating badly affected. a bbc investigation has found criminals are setting up fake businesses on an industrial scale and successfully applying for government-backed covid emergency loans - with no intention of paying the money back. they claim up to £50,000 on each application. the bounce back loan scheme - or bbls - was announced in april and is designed to help small firms stay afloat during the crisis.  the loans are 100% backed by the government and do not have to be paid off for six years. they are interest free for the first 12 months, and are administered by 12 banks. but we have uncovered evidence criminals are taking advantage of the system and could be making millions of pounds.  one fraud expert, a retired detective, has called it a "scandal" and said we may never know the true scale of the problem. the treasury insists banks are taking "appropriate precautions" and the government would take "criminal action against the most serious cases". the revelations come after the head of the national audit office told the guardian the bbls was the "riskiest" of all the bailout measures. so, how does the fraud work? gangs steal victims' personal details using phishing emails or buying them on criminal forums. they then set up a bogus business in their name. after opening a business bank account they then apply for a bounce back loan through the same bank. the rules state the scheme should only apply to firms set up before 1 march 2020.   but we've seen successful applications for companies that were created as late as june. we met a fraud investigator who has successfully infiltrated a criminal gang online. his work is highly sensitive so he asked to remain anonymous. he showed us the details of multiple people who had their personal details stolen, of businesses set up in their names and bounce back loans applied for. typically the criminals apply for the maximum of £50,000. the fraud investigator told us "it seems to be free money for the scammers". "there are hundreds, possibly thousands of people involved, engaged in this. it's going to cost us billions," he said. we also obtained data from companies house that indicates a sharp increase in the registration of new companies after the bbls was announced.  in early march registrations were running at 15,602 per week. after lockdown that figure halved to 7,571 per week.  chancellor rishi sunak announced the scheme on 27 april. registrations then rose to a record 21,616 by the end of june.  we don't know how many of those new companies might be fake - or how many actually applied for a loan. former detective and now civilian fraud and money laundering expert martin woods says the scheme was always vulnerable. "criminals identified it as a fabulous opportunity," he said, adding there were inadequate checks on the applications that were made. he added: "ultimately, it will be our children and grandchildren who pay for this." look-up tool: how many cases in your area?your questions: we answer your queriesthe r number: what it means and why it matterslocal lockdowns: what happens if you have one? acuris risk intelligence, which tracks online fraud, claims to have found more than 100 fake businesses set up by one criminal gang alone. its ceo joel lange said: "this type of fraud could have been prevented by conducting even the most basic checks by the banks." uk finance, which represents the banking sector, rejected the criticisms, saying: "lenders have a range of checks in place to detect and prevent fraudulent activity." that includes "a cross-industry initiative to check if duplicate applications have been made", it said. everything bbc news discovered is being made available to the authorities. a virgin media database containing the personal details of 900,000 people was left unsecured and accessible online for 10 months, the company has admitted. the information was accessed "on at least one occasion" by an unknown user. the database, which was for marketing purposes, contained phone numbers, home and email addresses. it did not include passwords or financial details. the breach was not due to a hack or a criminal attack, but because the database had been "incorrectly configured" by a member of staff not following the correct procedures, virgin media said.  the firm was alerted to the problem on friday after it was spotted by a security researcher at turgensec. the company said almost all of those affected were virgin customers with television or fixed-line telephone accounts, although the database also included some virgin mobile customers as well as potential customers referred by friends as part of a promotion. virgin media, which is owned by us cable group, liberty global, has informed the information commissioner's office as required, and launched a forensic investigation. four times more data breaches logged in ukrail station wi-fi provider exposed traveller datathousands lose broadband after workers break cable lutz schüler, chief executive of virgin media said: "we recently became aware that one of our marketing databases was incorrectly configured which allowed unauthorised access. we immediately solved the issue by shutting down access." "protecting our customers' data is a top priority and we sincerely apologise," he said. "based upon our investigation, virgin media does believe that the database was accessed on at least one occasion but we do not know the extent of the access or if any information was actually used," mr schuler said. virgin media said it would be emailing those affected on thursday, in order to warn them about the risks of phishing, nuisance calls and identity theft. the message will include a reminder not to click on unknown links in emails and not to provide personal details to unverified callers. further advice was available on its website, it said.   the fact that virgin media's database hasn't been actively hacked is reassuring for customers, but while the details are light, it sounds like human error is to blame and that is rather embarrassing for a tech firm. ten months is a long time for all that data to have just been sitting there, waiting to be found.  and while no passwords or bank details were among it, there's an awful lot of contact information for a cyber-criminal to work with. phishing expeditions - when someone tries to get financial information out of a victim by pretending to be a company with a legitimate reason for contact - are not particularly sophisticated, but they are effective for those caught off-guard, and can be a lucrative source of income. it's unclear whether this was yet another case of unsecured data being stored on a cloud service that's easily searchable if you know how. there have been dozens of examples of this lately, including just this week a database of the personal details of people using train station wi-fi around the uk. virgin media has apologised and really, there's very little practical advice to offer in the light of this kind of breach, beyond the usual protocol of staying alert to any messages requesting personal information or access to any kind of finance.  a council has been hit by 400,000 spam emails in one week. hackers have targeted sunderland city council with phishing and spoofing emails, and at least one distributed denial of service (ddos) attack. officers also experienced a "spray attack" where accounts were locked out after criminals repeatedly used common passwords to try to gain access. the attacks took place during a week in november and the council has said it will improve its it security. the council's it security breach was revealed in a scrutiny co-ordinating committee report, the local democracy reporting service said. last year, the local government association published a "cyber-stocktake" based on a questionnaire completed by councils. sunderland received green and amber ratings in several areas, but was labelled red in technology standards and compliance and detection. the council said it planned to improve its security by moving pcs to windows 10 and making sure default passwords were changed. it said that although measures were being taken, there was "no silver bullet that guarantees 100% protection". 'a catfish stole my online identity'footballers pay tribute after sick boy dieswatch: 'i go on night buses to help loneliness' cyber-thieves are creating an "invisible internet" to stop police spying on cyber-crime deals being done on the dark net, research suggests. instead of trading on marketplaces, criminals have turned to "gated" chat forums, invitation-only communities and encrypted apps, say researchers.  the change could make it hard for law enforcement agencies to spot and trace attacks, they warn. they also found a large increase in attacks aimed at big companies. the study embedded undercover researchers into a wide variety of forums and gated chat forums on the dark net. the dark net is the part of the internet not accessible to search engines such as google, and for which people need a special browser to visit. the most well-known dark net is accessed via the tor browser. successful efforts by police to infiltrate dark net marketplaces as well as raids that saw many of them closed down, had pushed criminal hackers to adopt more secure ways of communicating, said dr mike mcguire, a criminologist from the university of surrey, who led the project. "it's not as vibrant as it once was because they know the feds are listening and that they will take down markets," he said. while criminal gangs were still active on those publicly accessible marketplaces, said dr mcguire, any conversations about targets and tactics were instantly moved to secure apps such as telegram or separate forums and chat rooms. "it's becoming like an invisible internet," he told the bbc. "that's going to be worrying for law enforcement." for the study, researchers posed as customers and quizzed hackers about the cost of a wide variety of cyber-attacks, they probed market rates for tailored malware attacks, phishing campaigns, industrial espionage and insider information. sample costs included: remote logins for corporate networks $2-$30 (£1.50-£24)targeted attack on company $4,500targeted attack on individual $2,000phishing kits $40fake amazon receipts and invoices $52espionage and insider trading $1,000 - $15,000 the cyber-crime economy that had emerged on the dark net was a mirror to the legitimate industry, said ian pratt, co-founder of security firm bromium that sponsored the research.  the cyber-crime economy was diverse and sophisticated, he said, with many hacking gangs specialising in just one aspect of an attack, such as crafting malware, writing convincing phishing emails or setting up sites to grab data from victims. it was also clear, he said, that the hackers could get access to almost any network they desired.  "it's not hard to get into corporate networks," he said, adding that the most successful method of winning access was via a well-crafted phishing campaign.  he said adverts and listings for attacks on enterprises had grown by 20% since 2016, suggesting corporates were becoming a lucrative target. a successful phishing attack gave hackers "instant deep access" said mr pratt, that they could then build on to either get at saleable data or to thoroughly compromise a target. the changing nature of the dark net underworld should prompt police to change the way they tackle cyber-crime, said dr mcguire. "law enforcement have a very focused and narrow perception and take down particular groups," he said. "but by taking out specific groups they are not making much of a dent in it." if one group disappeared or was broken up by police another would just move to fill in the gap, he added.  "it's like cutting the head off a hydra."  criminals netted $3.5bn (£2.7bn) from cyber-crimes reported to the fbi alone in 2019, according to the service's internet crime complaint centre (ic3). it received 467,361 complaints from individuals and businesses during the year and has had nearly five million since its inception in 2000. phishing and extortion remain the most popular ways of scamming people. it says techniques are becoming more sophisticated, making it harder for people to tell "real from fake". this is especially true of web and email addresses that are fooling people because they look increasingly legitimate. last year ic3 had 13,633 complaints from victims of so-called tech-support fraud, which involves a scammer phoning an individual and claiming there is a problem with their computer that needs immediate fixing.  losses amounted to more than $54m and complaints came from victims in 48 countries. the vast majority were over 60 years of age. ransomware - where hackers lock down computers and demand a payment to unlock them - netted more than $8.9m over the year, according to the group.  it urged members of the public to continue reporting crimes. "information reported to the ic3 plays a vital role in the fbi's ability to understand our cyber-adversaries and their motives, which, in turn, helps us to impose risks and consequences on those who break our laws and threaten our national security," said assistant director of the fbi's cyber division matt gorham. "it is through these efforts we hope to build a safer and more secure cyber-landscape." the ukrainian gas company at the centre of president donald trump's impeachment was successfully hacked by russian military agents in november, a us cybersecurity firm has said. area 1 security said it was not clear what the hackers were searching for when they hacked burisma holdings. democratic presidential contender joe biden's son hunter biden was previously on the board of the firm. burisma, the us government and russia's ministry of defence are yet to respond. area 1 linked the hack - a "phishing" attack - to russia's military intelligence unit known commonly as the gru. a timeline of the trump-ukraine storywhite house blocked ukraine aid just after trump callthree republican impeachment claims, fact-checked president trump was impeached in december over allegations that he improperly pressured ukraine's leader volodymyr zelensky to launch an investigation into burisma and its links to the bidens. the security firm also drew parallels between november's hack and another that was carried out against democrats in 2016, before the us presidential election.  in its eight-page report, california-based firm area 1 said the gru hackers behind the burisma breach are known by the alias "fancy bear" among cybersecurity researchers. the hackers used "phishing" emails that are designed to steal usernames and passwords, the california-based security firm said. in this case, burisma employees were sent what looked like internal company emails and fake websites that looked like the sign-in pages of burisma subsidiaries. using this tactic, the hackers managed to get into burisma's servers, it added. area 1 said it became aware of the hack after its email security scanning product found suspicious evidence online, including "decoy domains" for the fake websites. a source close to burisma told reuters news agency that the company's website had been subject to a number of break-in attempts over the past six months. burisma, a ukrainian energy firm, is at the heart of the impeachment proceedings against president trump. in a phone call in july 2019, president trump pushed for ukrainian president zelensky to announce an investigation into burisma and the bidens. specifically, mr trump wanted kyiv to look into a debunked theory that joe biden had previously tried to quash a probe of burisma in order to protect his son. president trump is now due to stand trial in the senate on two articles of impeachment - abuse of power and obstruction of congress. he denies any wrongdoing. the burisma hack "really is starting to parallel with what we saw in 2016", area 1 co-founder oren falkowitz told reuters. that year, hackers gained access to the democratic national committee (dnc) and to the campaign of president trump's then-electoral rival, hillary clinton. area 1 co-founders mr falkowitz and blake darche added: "the timing of the gru's campaign in relation to the 2020 us elections raises the specter that this is an early warning of what we have anticipated since the successful cyberattacks undertaken during the 2016 us elections." mr darche also told reuters that they were "100% certain" that the gru was behind the hacking. the government is cracking down on misinformation about the coronavirus pandemic. a rapid response unit within the cabinet office is working with social media firms to remove fake news and harmful content. culture secretary oliver dowden said action was needed "to stem the spread of falsehoods and rumours, which could cost lives". the specialist unit is dealing with as many as 10 incidents each day. it will try to tackle a range of issues online, such as fake "experts" issuing false medical information and criminals running phishing scams. last tuesday, for example, hours after the government started sending texts urging people to stay at home, several fake versions of the message began circulating on social media. one of them told people they had been fined for breaking the rules. mr dowden added: "we need people to follow expert medical advice and stay at home, protect the nhs and save lives.  "it is vital that this message hits home and that misinformation and disinformation which undermines it is knocked down quickly." the government is also re-launching a campaign called "don't feed the beast", urging the public to think carefully about what they share online. it comes as the former chairman of the digital, culture, media and sport select committee called for knowingly sharing misinformation about covid-19 to be made an offence. conservative mp damian collins said: "the information contagion around covid-19 is so dangerous, because there is so much that people don't know and so much happening all the time, that it is very easy for false rumours to take hold and spread." mr collins is also launching an online service where members of the public can post screenshots of coronavirus-related information they have been sent. social media companies have also announced measures to try to fight the spread of misinformation about the virus.  twitter has said it will remove content that promotes unverified claims. last week, facebook, google, microsoft and reddit also said they would work with governments on the issue and to help those in self-isolation. a ransomware attack on a us natural gas facility meant a pipeline had to be shut down for two days, the us department of homeland security (dhs) has said. however, it did not name the facility or say when the attack happened. a malicious link sent to staff at the facility eventually caused the shutdown "of the entire pipeline asset". it was so severe in part because the organisation was not prepared for such an attack, the dhs statement said. the incident was detailed in a security alert., which revealed it to be a "spear-phishing" attack, in which individuals are sent fraudulent but believable scam messages. that let the attacker into the company's it network. often, the "operational network" which runs computers in the factory is separated from the office it - but not in this case, meaning the ransomware infection was allowed to spread. ransomware typically encrypts files on a victim's computer and demands payment before offering to unlock them again - although there is no guarantee that the cyber-criminals who develop such software will be true to their word. a spate of ransomware attacks has troubled various us organisations recently - from local authorities to hospitals to a maritime base. in the case of the natural gas facility, only one office was targeted, but others in different geographic locations were forced to close down, too. the dhs said the affected organisation had not properly prepared for a cyber-attack of this kind - with its emergency plans being focused on all sorts of physical attacks instead. "consequently, emergency response exercises also failed to provide employees with decision-making experience in dealing with cyber-attacks," the department added. all organisations, regardless of what sector they are in, should prepare for the possibility of a ransomware attack, said carl wearn, head of e-crime at cloud email firm mimecast. businesses could do this "by implementing offline back-ups with a fall-back email and archiving facility, as a minimum" he said. up to 60% of emergency pandemic loans made under the bounce back scheme may never be repaid, a report by the government's spending watchdog says.  the national audit office (nao) said taxpayers could lose as much as £26bn, from fraud, organised crime or default. the lending scheme carried lighter checks than others and was aimed at small businesses unable to access other pandemic funding support. a recent bbc investigation revealed how fraudsters were using the loan system.  many of those affected will have no idea their names have been used until repayment letters begin arriving in early summer. one of the victims spoken to by the bbc, mark telling, said he was worried "to death" to discover a company set up in his name by a criminal had "borrowed" £50,000 from the bail-out scheme.  the bbc also spoke to sue burden, who had also found her identity had been stolen to set up a bogus company to access the scheme. she said she had gone "from tears to anger... now i'm going to be scared to do anything". the bbc reported last week that the government was warned back in may that the scheme was at "very high risk of fraud" from "organised crime". the government said it has tried to minimise fraud through lenders' background checks.  the scheme provides firms with 100% government-backed finance worth up to £50,000. demand has been greater than anticipated, and the total value of these loans is now expected to be £38bn-£48bn, up from an estimate of £18bn-£26bn. they do not have to be paid off for 10 years and offer a range of flexible payment options.  the  loan scheme is an extension of earlier offers which some businesses complained they could not access as the lending criteria was too strict.  the nao report warned that the speed with which the scheme was rolled out heightened the fraud risk. it took a month to ensure businesses could not receive more than one loan.  'my name was used to steal a government covid loan'arrest over £110k covid small business loan frauduk banks get 100,000 loan applications on first day the public accounts committee said it was the government's largest and most risky business support scheme.  it says it will not assess the value-for-money of the scheme, as the loans will not start being paid back until may next year.  the nao analysis said losses from the scheme are likely to reach "significantly above" normal estimates for public-sector fraud of 0.5% to 5%.  the report also said the uk's five biggest banks will make nearly £1bn between them from the scheme. meg hillier, chair of the public accounts committee, said the loans had been a vital lifeline for many businesses.  but she added that "the government estimates that up to 60% of the loans could turn bad - this would be a truly eye-watering loss of public money".  "the bounce back loan scheme got money into the hands of small businesses quickly, and will have stopped some from going under. "but the scheme's hasty launch means criminals may have helped themselves to billions of pounds at the taxpayer's expense. "sadly, many firms won't be able to repay their loans and the banks will be quick to wash their hands of the problem.  today's report confirms what many people had suspected.   in may, the government had to get money to small businesses as quickly as possible, before tens of thousands of them went bust.   but to do that, they had to make compromises on credit and fraud checks.  this opened the doors to a whole range of problems - including fraud by organised criminal gangs.   we've found evidence of more than 100 bogus firms set up by scammers to make fraudulent applications - getting the maximum £50,000 each time.   they've used the stolen, personal details of innocent victims to set up the fake companies - victims who won't know anything about it until the letters demanding repayment start arriving through their doors next summer.  how it's done:  gangs steal victims' personal details using phishing emails or buying them on criminal forums. they then set up a bogus business in their name.after opening a business bank account they then apply for a bounce back loan through the same bank. the taxpayer is in the same position - waiting to find out how much the scheme will ultimately cost us.  the warning from the national audit office is clear - it has the potential to be "very high". sue and dave burden, from the south of england, were shocked to find that sue's identity had been stolen to set up a company and claim a bounce back loan.  "i've gone from tears to anger," she told the bbc. "now i'm going to be scared to do anything." the state-owned british business bank (bbb), which supervises the bounce back loan scheme, twice raised concerns, firstly in may.  the bbb expects it will pay out £1.07bn in interest payments to the high street lenders that provided the cash.  most of this will go to uk's five biggest banks, barclays, hsbc, lloyds, natwest and santander, which provided £31.3bn of funding. according to latest treasury figures, there have been 1.55 million applications for the loans, with 1.26 million approvals. "we targeted this support to help those who need it most as quickly as possible and we won't apologise for this," a government spokesperson said. "we've looked to minimise fraud - with lenders implementing a range of protections including anti-money laundering and customer checks, as well as transaction monitoring controls.  "any fraudulent applications can be criminally prosecuted for which penalties include imprisonment or a fine or both." have you been affected by the issues raised in this story? share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also get in touch in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy if you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the bbc website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include your name, age and location with any submission.  this week, after seven years of building up thousands of instagram followers, a small company on the south coast of england found its account had been hacked. the english stamp company tried to let instagram know. but in a response that evening, the social media giant said the account had been permanently deleted. "we're sorry for any inconvenience this causes," instagram, which is owned by facebook, said in the automated message. "it's gutting, the fact that it's the last seven years of work, and it's disappointing that instagram appears unwilling to help," says bella dorey, 27, one of three people in the firm who manage the account. the company, which makes rubber stamps, was founded in 1992 by bella's father and mother, jon and sasha, and has seven employees. it had built up nearly 29,000 followers on its instagram account, and was hoping to get to 30,000 by christmas. it uses instagram as its main marketing tool, and was relying on the social media platform to boost christmas sales, especially as coronavirus has put a stop to the usual exhibitions the company uses to showcase its wares. travelex strikes rescue deal but 1,300 uk jobs goblackbaud hack: universities lose data to ransomware attack "we are going to suffer a loss financially," says bella. "how do you put a value on more than 28,000 followers?" on tuesday the company got a message from instagram saying there had been an unusual login to its account from a computer in huddersfield. the bbc verified with a computer security expert that this message was genuine. bella and a colleague immediately tried to get in contact with instagram but just four minutes later, they got an email from the hackers, who called themselves "carlo minhift". "good day! we apologize for the inconvenience. your account has been temporarily blocked," the email said. the hackers said they would wait two hours, then start "clearing" the account by deleting photos if bella and her colleagues did not respond. the next day, the hackers revealed their intention had been to extort money from the small firm. but they were too late, instagram had already deleted the account. "we didn't want to ruin your account, but you don't respond to us. we realized that you will not pay us. no, not really. we apologize for not being convenient, but we unfortunately start clearing the account after 30 minutes and sell it. see you later," the hackers said. attacks on instagram users, while rarer than other forms of cyber attack, are becoming increasingly common as a growing number of influencers and companies market themselves on the platform, according to professor alan woodward, a cyber security expert at the university of surrey. he said the decision of the english stamp company not to engage with the hackers was "brave" but he said it was the right one. "you shouldn't pay the ransom," he said. "there's no guarantee you'll get the account back, the money will be used to fund further crime, and you'll just paint a big target on your back as a 'payer'." quite a lot of attacks of this nature rely on so-called phishing emails which try to trick users into revealing sensitive information, like usernames and passwords, by posing as a reputable website. "credential stuffing" is another ploy used by hackers who use personal data, harvested elsewhere, to gain unauthorised access to accounts the best way to deal with an instagram attack is to try to pre-empt it by beefing up your security beforehand, professor woodward said. make sure passwords are strong, and don't reuse them across sites, he added. instagram offers two-factor authentication by sending a code to your phone. people can check whether their usernames or passwords have been breached through a website called haveibeenpwned.com, which is run by troy hunt, a microsoft security expert. facebook says instagram is working with the english stamp company to try to recover their account as soon as possible. "businesses are an important part of our community and we take their safety and security seriously," the company said. "we notify people if we see any unauthorised changes to an account and in the few instances hacking occurs, people can recover accounts through the app and website." has your business instagram account been hacked? what was the impact on your firm? email haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also contact us in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7756 165803tweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy fraudsters have stolen thousands of pounds from currys pc world customers after hijacking the retailer's ebay account. criminals were able to change payment details on a number of ebay listings, including for the iphone 11. this enabled them to siphon money from unwitting customers who paid for goods via a paypal account. currys pc world, ebay and paypal said all affected customers would be refunded. a spokesman for dixons carphone, which owns currys pc world, said it was "disappointed that this has happened" and would work with ebay "to investigate what has taken place". the spokesman added: "while we don't host this website, we are providing affected customers with guidance on how to obtain a refund from paypal." a spokesman for ebay said: "the issue was resolved quickly and customers can continue to shop with full confidence." paypal said it was working to reverse any affected transactions. a spokesman said: "if a customer has not seen their money refunded then they may need to raise an 'item not received' case via their paypal account." paypal enables users to send and receive money using just an email address. many shoppers use it to pay for items on ebay. scammers stole from unwitting customers by setting up a fake paypal account. the fraudsters used an email address that looked almost identical to currys pc world's real account. after accessing the retailer's ebay account, they replaced the real email on listings with a fake one. shoppers who thought they were paying currys pc world for their goods were instead sending money to the fraudsters. the attack happened on the weekend of october 19-20. it affected around 600 customers and potentially cost hundreds of thousands of pounds.  refunds should appear in affected customers' accounts over the coming days. the company was also recently targeted by a separate phishing attack, according to mail online, in which a fake ebay login page attempted to collect people's details. the currys pc world website is unaffected. cyber security expert graham cluley said the scam - known as a homograph attack - exploits the close similarity between two different characters or letters. he said: "for instance, a lower case "l" for lima looks very much like an upper case "i" for india in many fonts. "for years, scammers have been duping unsuspecting internet users into clicking on dangerous links by using this simple technique and, by the sound of things, are fooling users into paying the wrong paypal accounts too." mr cluley said the best way for people to stop scammers was to protect their accounts with two-factor authentication, which adds an extra layer of protection. "you can also run a password manager which stores your passwords securely and protects against phishing attacks. and keep a close eye on your accounts for unusual transactions," he said. a russian hacking group is launching ransomware attacks against a number of us companies, targeting employees who are working from home due to covid-19. evil corp hackers have tried to access at least 31 organisations' networks in order to cripple systems and demand millions of dollars in ransom. the group's two alleged leaders were indicted by the us justice department in december 2019. there are concerns that us voting systems could also be targeted. last year, us authorities filed charges against evil corp's alleged leaders maksim yakubets and igor turashev, accusing them of using malware to steal millions of dollars from groups including schools and religious organisations in over 40 countries. officials announced a $5m reward for information leading to their arrest, which they said was the largest amount ever offered for a cyber criminal. both men are still at large.  the threat comes as the majority of americans have been working from home due to the coronavirus pandemic -  62% according to a gallup poll. the us presidential election is also just months away, and federal and local officials have been working to put measures in place to protect voter records as well as manage safe voting practices amid the pandemic. symantec corporation, a firm that monitors corporate and government networks released a notice warning of the threat it identified on thursday night. the attacks used what symantec described as a relatively new type of ransomware called wastedlocker, which has been attributed to evil corp. ransomware are computer viruses that threaten to delete files unless the ransom is paid. the wastedlocker ransomware virus demands ransoms of $500,000 to $1m to unlock computer files it seizes.  symantec said the "vast majority of targets are major corporations, including many household names", and eight targets were fortune 500 companies. all are us-owned but one, which is a us-based subsidiary. most targeted companies were in the manufacturing, information technology and media sectors.  symantec said the hackers had breached the networks of these companies and were "laying the groundwork" for future ransomware attacks that would let them block access to data and demand millions of dollars. symantec technical director eric chien told the new york times the hackers take advantage of employees now using virtual private networks (vpns) to access work systems. they use vpns to identify which company a user works for, and then infect the user's computer when they visit a public or commercial site. when the user next connects to their employer's system, the hackers can attack. there have been a number of recent cyber-attacks on local governments across the us. cities and towns in louisiana, oregon, maryland, georgia, texas and florida were hit by ransomware attacks last year.  the department of homeland security is looking into safeguarding voter registration databases ahead of november 3's general election. in february, the agency's head of cyber-security said this was a key election security concern. these attacks by foreign cyber-criminals are far from a new threat. during the impeachment inquiry last year, former white house security adviser and russia expert fiona hill testified that "russia's security services and their proxies have geared up to repeat their interference in the 2020 election". in 2018, the justice department charged 12 russian intelligence officers with hacking democratic officials in the 2016 us elections, using spear phishing emails and malicious software.  the hackers also stole data on half a million voters from a state election board site. moscow has said there is no evidence linking the 12 to military intelligence or hacking. hackers targeted mobile phone networks around the world to snoop on specific users, according to a report. the level of access they gained to the networks meant they could have shut them down had they wanted to. us-israeli security firm cybereason concluded "with a high level of certainty" that the hackers were based in china, probably sponsored by the government. the attack - dubbed operation softcell - began in 2017. cybereason spotted the attacks in 2018 and helped one telecoms provider through four more over the next six months. it has now briefed more than a dozen others. none of the targeted firms or people has been named but, according to the report, the hackers collected the call records and geo-location of various individuals from a selection of countries, including those in europe, the middle east and asia. the security firm identified changes in the pattern of attack and new activity every three or four months. the hackers gained entry to networks via a flaw in a web server product. cybereason said the tools and techniques bore the hallmarks of chinese hacking group apt10, which is widely believed to operate on behalf of the chinese government. security expert at the university of surrey,  prof alan woodward said the scale and audacity of the attacks was "breathtaking". "the hackers used phishing attacks to get privileged access to networks and could potentially have closed them down. "they could see who called whom, when, and also seem to have been able to track people's movements." while us networks do not seem to be affected by this wave of attacks, they remain vulnerable and could have been targeted with different tools, said prof woodward. while there is no suggestion that chinese firms played any part in the attacks, it will add "grist to the mill" for politicians calling for mobile operators to distance themselves from firms like huawei, he added. in 2018, 30% of telecoms firms reported that sensitive customer data had been stolen in attacks. google is beefing up the way it checks if any of the apps uploaded to its play store are malicious. all new apps will be scanned by malware-spotting tools from three cyber-security companies as well as google's own in-house system. google said it needed help because the number of apps being uploaded was too large for it to handle alone. nasty play apps can hit lots of people. malicious code found in june was in apps downloaded 400 million times. security companies zimperium, eset and lookout will work together on what google has called the app defense alliance. the four partners will set up a combined scanning system that will scrutinise apps as they pass through google's pipeline on the way to being offered to android users via the play store. working from massive databases of known malware, behavioural clues and machine-learning models of novel threats the scanners will look for trojans, adware, ransomware, banking malware and phishing attacks. "on the malware side, we haven't really had a way to scale as much as we've wanted to scale," dave kleidermacher, google's vice-president of android security, told wired magazine. mr kleidermacher added there were so many apps being developed, even making a "1% incremental improvement" could make a difference.  the scanning system is the latest in a series of steps google has taken in its bid to do a better job of policing the play store.  in april, it announced more rigorous checks for developers to root out "bad faith" coders who produced and uploaded malicious or fraudulent apps. a leading medical-research institution working on a cure for covid-19 has admitted it paid hackers a $1.14m (£910,000) ransom after a covert negotiation witnessed by bbc news. the netwalker criminal gang attacked university of california san francisco (ucsf) on 1 june. it staff unplugged computers in a race to stop the malware spreading. and an anonymous tip-off enabled bbc news to follow the ransom negotiations in a live chat on the dark web. cyber-security experts say these sorts of negotiations are now happening all over the world - sometimes for even larger sums - against the advice of law-enforcement agencies, including the fbi, europol and the uk's national cyber security centre.  netwalker alone has been linked to at least two other ransomware attacks on universities in the past two months. at first glance, its dark-web homepage looks like a standard customer-service website, with a frequently asked questions (faq) tab, an offer of a "free" sample of its software and a live-chat option.  but there is also a countdown timer ticking down to a time when the hackers either double the price of their ransom, or delete the data they have scrambled with malware. instructed to log in - either by email or a ransom note left on hacked computer screens - ucsf was met with the following message, posted on 5 june. six hours later, the university asked for more time and for details of the hack to be removed from netwalker's public blog. noting ucsf made billions a year, the hackers then demanded $3m but the ucsf representative, who may be an external specialist negotiator, explained the coronavirus pandemic had been "financially devastating" for the university and begged them to accept $780,000.   after a day of back-and-forth negotiations, ucsf said it had pulled together all available money and could pay $1.02m - but the criminals refused to go below $1.5m. hours later, the university came back with details of how it had procured more money and a final offer of $1,140,895.  and the next day, 116.4 bitcoins were transferred to netwalker's electronic wallets and the decryption software sent to ucsf.    ucsf is now assisting the fbi with its investigations, while working to restore all affected systems. it told bbc news: "the data that was encrypted is important to some of the academic work we pursue as a university serving the public good. "we therefore made the difficult decision to pay some portion of the ransom, approximately $1.14 million, to the individuals behind the malware attack in exchange for a tool to unlock the encrypted data and the return of the data they obtained. "it would be a mistake to assume that all of the statements and claims made in the negotiations are factually accurate." but jan op gen oorth, from europol, which runs a project called no more ransom, said: "victims should not pay the ransom, as this finances criminals and encourages them to continue their illegal activities.  "instead, they should report it to the police so law enforcement can disrupt the criminal enterprise." brett callow, a threat analyst at cyber-security company emsisoft, said: "organisations in this situation are without a good option. "even if they pay the demand, they'll simply receive a pinky-promise that the stolen data will be deleted.  "but why would a ruthless criminal enterprise delete data that it may be able to further monetise at a later date?" most ransomware attacks begin with a booby-trapped emaii and research suggests criminal gangs are increasingly using tools that can gain access to systems via a single download. in the first week of this month alone, proofpoint's cyber-security analysts say they saw more than one million emails with using a variety of phishing lures, including fake covid-19 test results, sent to organisations in the us, france, germany, greece, and italy.  organisations are encouraged to regularly back-up their data offline. but proofpoint's ryan kalember said: "universities can be challenging environments to secure for it administrators. "the constantly changing student population, combined with a culture of openness and information-sharing, can conflict with the rules and controls often needed to effectively protect the users and systems from attack." holiday camp firm butlin's says up to 34,000 guests at its resorts may have had their personal information stolen by hackers. the company says the data in question included names, home addresses, contact details and holiday arrival dates. managing director dermot king apologised for the incident and said no financial details had been compromised. butlin's has set up a "dedicated team" to contact guests who may have been affected. "butlin's take the security of our guest data very seriously and have improved a number of our security processes," said mr king. "i would like to apologise for any upset or inconvenience this incident might cause." the firm has published a dedicated web page with some details about the breach. a spokesman for butlin's confirmed that the hack took place within the last 72 hours and was a phishing attack. however, butlin's does not currently know if information on all 34,000 guests was taken. "we cannot be definitive at the moment with regard to whether all data was hacked," the spokesman told the bbc. butlin's said it has not yet found evidence of fraudulent activity related to the incident. "this breach was the result of a phishing email, demonstrating the crucial need to train staff so they can recognise increasingly sophisticated communications that purport to be genuine," said jocelyn paulley at law firm gowling wlg. ms paulley added that human error was the "greatest single point of weakness" in organisations' security. a spokeswoman for the information commissioner's office said: "butlins has made us aware of an incident and we will be making enquiries." there are three butlin's holiday camp sites - skegness in lincolnshire, bognor regis in west sussex and minehead in somerset. hundreds of staff at mobile phone company sure have had their bank details and other personal data stolen in a "targeted" phishing attack.  current and former employees working for the telecoms firm on the isle of man, guernsey and jersey have been affected. the data includes names, addresses, account numbers and sort codes. a spokesman said "fewer than 400" people were affected but no existing customers' data had been accessed. the company is one of the main mobile and broadband providers on the islands. the firm said it was contacting those affected, which includes "suppliers", urging them to be "extra vigilant" and working with the islands' authorities. the attack is thought to have come in via a staff email account, which has since been shut down."human error" was partly to blame, the company said. a spokesman said sure could not confirm any information about "the location or individual" whose account was targeted, for "confidentiality and security purposes".  sure has apologised and said it was "constantly reviewing" its training programmes. the isle of man information commissioner's office said it had been informed of the attack and an investigation had been launched. an attempt to defraud thousands of people using a bogus email from a uk airport was one of a range of cyber-attacks prevented last year. the scam used a fake gov.uk address, but the messages were prevented from ever reaching their intended recipients. the details were revealed by gchq's national cyber security centre in an annual report. in all, ncsc disclosed it had stopped 140,000 separate phishing attacks. this refers to the attempted online theft of bank details and other sensitive information by impersonating a trustworthy person or organisation. in addition, the agency said it had taken down 190,000 fraudulent sites.  this often happened quickly. the centre said that 64% of illegal sites were offline within 24 hours of being discovered and 99.3% eventually went dark. this is the second time ncsc has published a progress report for its active cyber defence programme. the effort - which uses a mix of automated processes to defeat internet-based threats to the uk - was launched in late-2016. one focus is to take down malware and phishing sites. this is normally done by finding out who hosts the websites involved and then telling them that their clients are running a criminal operation. most providers take down the pages quickly, although there are some exceptions.   ncsc has not shared the name of the airport the fraudsters attempted to impersonate last august. but it did say that the failed scheme involved sending 200,000 emails to members of the public asking them to pay a fee in order to receive a larger refund.  had the intended victims paid the sum, they would have got nothing in return. uk cyber-security efforts criticised by audit officeuk cyber-centre thwarts hostile hackersuk moves to 'active cyber-defence' the security centre also took the criminals' real email address offline to ensure they could not receive any replies. another success was an apparent reduction in the number of attacks in which fraudsters had posed as hm revenue and customs. scammers often pretend to offer individuals tax refunds if victims provide bank accounts and a facilitation payment.   at the start of january 2016, hmrc was the 16th most popular disguise used in phishing emails. by the end of 2019, a series of new measures had reduced its global ranking to 146th. efforts were also made to prevent 1.4 million employees in the public sector from visiting malicious sites.  this involved a service known as pdns (protective domain name system), which effectively refuses to query the internet's address book when appropriate. so, for example, if a user typed in a web address whose domain name had previously been linked to illegal activity -  eg dodgysite.com - the service would refuse to provide the related internet protocol address - eg 216.58.111.789 - required to connect to its computer servers. ncsc said that pdns had handled a total of 68.7 billion queries in 2018, of which it had blocked 57.4 million.  this included frustrating 450,000 queries related to wannacry - the malware that took down parts of the nhs in 2018. a further 230,000 queries were obstructed relating to another piece of malware called badrabbit. the system even found evidence of attempts to spread the conficker worm, which was released as far back as 2008. ncsc added that bt has been working on its own version of pdns, and is blocking an average of 110 million malicious connections per month. other incidents flagged by the report included: a primary school being involved in the spread of a large-scale malware infection because its anti-virus system was not workingan unnamed public sector organisation that deals with sensitive information getting breached because its employees had downloaded unauthorised softwareat least 318 public sector networks still routinely using windows xp despite microsoft having pulled nearly all support for the operating system in 2014 in the future, the ncsc said it wanted to do more to map the uk's use of the internet, in a piece of research it calls the internet weather centre.  the aim is to understand questions like what are the most commonly used cloud services, and then use that knowledge to understand related vulnerabilities.  it also wants to do more work to allow public sector users to scan and check how their infrastructure is exposed to the net to spot potential risks. the us department of justice has charged 12 russian intelligence officers with hacking democratic officials in the 2016 us elections. deputy attorney general rod rosenstein said the dozen accused used spear phishing emails and malicious software. he said the hackers also stole data on half a million voters from a state election board website. the kremlin said there was no evidence linking the 12 to military intelligence or hacking. the claims were "an old duck" and a "heap of conspiracy schemes", said moscow's foreign ministry in a statement. friday's indictment was the first by us officials to directly charge russia's government with meddling in the us vote two years ago. four intriguing lines in mueller chargeswho's who in russia-trump drama? the 11-count indictment names the russians defendants, alleging they began cyber-attacks in march 2016 on the email accounts of staff for hillary clinton's presidential campaign. mr rosenstein said the defendants corresponded with several americans during the alleged conspiracy, but added there is no allegation that any us citizen committed a crime. the deputy attorney general said the conspirators used fictitious online personas, including "dcleaks" and "guccifer 2.0", to release thousands of stolen emails beginning in june 2016. they also plotted to hack into the computers of state boards of elections, secretaries of state, and voter software, according to the indictment. mr rosenstein said: "we know that the goal of the conspirators was to have an impact on the election." the deputy attorney general said all 12 defendants were in the russian intelligence service, the gru. a guide to us legaleseall you need to know about mueller inquiry the dnc leak showed that top democrats preferred mrs clinton for the presidential nomination, which confirmed the worst fears among supporters of her liberal challenger, bernie sanders. clinton campaign manager john podesta's emails were also hacked, which contained details of infighting and aides' disparaging remarks about mrs clinton. 18 revelations from wikileaks emailswhy us fears russia is hacking election analysis by anthony zurcher, bbc news if the russian military had dropped a bomb on the headquarters of a us political party, it would be an act of war. same if it had launched a missile at the home of the chair of a us presidential campaign.  this isn't what happened, of course, but make no mistake, what the us department of justice is alleging - a cyber-attack by russian military officers against a us political party and its leaders - is, or at least should be, equally inflammatory. the wreckage of what robert mueller's team says were russian strikes on the us can be measured in damaged reputations and disrupted politics.  deputy attorney general rod rosenstein denies that friday's announcement had anything to do with donald trump's upcoming meeting with vladimir putin - but they will cast a shadow over the summit nevertheless.  after days of sharply criticising us allies, the world will closely watch how the president handles allegations of "virtual" warfare against the us when he sits down with the man whose military is accused of being behind it all. president donald trump was briefed about the indictments earlier in the week. he is currently in the uk, from where he once again dismissed the investigation as a "rigged witch hunt".  during a joint news conference with british prime minister theresa may on friday, mr trump also said the russia collusion allegations dogging his presidency were "pure stupidity". next week he will meet with russian president vladimir putin at a summit in helsinki, finland. senate democratic leader chuck schumer has urged the president to cancel that meeting, in light of the indictment. special counsel robert mueller is investigating us intelligence findings that russians conspired to tilt the election in mr trump's favour, and whether any of his campaign aides colluded. as of friday, the inquiry has indicted 32 people - mostly russian nationals in absentia - as well as three companies and four former trump advisers. none of the charges allege trump advisers colluded with russia to interfere with the presidential campaign. former national security adviser michael flynn and george papadopoulos, a former foreign policy adviser, have pleaded guilty to making false statements about their contacts with russians. former trump campaign chairman paul manafort and his deputy rick gates were charged with money laundering relating to their political consultancy work in ukraine. cyber-criminals are abusing multilingual character sets to trick people into visiting phishing websites. the non-english characters allow scammers to create "lookalike" sites with domain names almost indistinguishable from legitimate ones. farsight security found scam sites posing as banks and loan advisers. another firm saw children's brands such as lego and haribo being abused. smartphones screens put users at risk as they make lookalikes hard to spot. the farsight security report looked at more than 100 million domain names that use non-english character sets - introduced to make the net more familiar and usable for non-english speaking nations - and found about 27% that were unique, indicating the prevalent usage of internationalized domain names. it also uncovered more than 8,000 international domain name homographs, or lookalike domain names, characters, representing or containing a top global brand name. farsight founder paul vixie, who wrote much of the software underpinning the net's domain names  told the bbc: "any lower case letter can be represented by as many as 40 different variations."   and many internationalised versions added just a tiny fleck or mark that was not easy to see. eldar tuvey, founder and head of security company wandera, said it had also seen an upsurge in phishing domains using different ways of forming characters.  in particular, it had seen an almost doubling of the number of scam domains created using an encoding system called punycode over the past few months.  and phishing gangs were using messages sent via mobile apps to tempt people into clicking on the similar-looking links. "they are targeting specific groups," mr tuvey said.  and research had established people were three times more likely to fall for a phishing scam presented on their phone. "to phish someone, you just have to fool them once," mr tuvey said. "tricking them into installing malware is much more work." fraudsters are using the pandemic as an excuse to trick people out of their cash, according to british banks. uk finance has warned that scamsters are preying on consumers' financial fears and has named ten covid-19 scams the public should be wary of. "criminals are impersonating trusted organisations like the nhs or hmrc to trick people," the trade body said. people should stay alert to avoid falling for the sophisticated schemes, it said. "during this pandemic we have seen criminals using sophisticated methods to callously exploit people's financial concerns to trick them into giving away their money or information," said katy worobec, managing director of economic crime at uk finance. local councils have recorded a 40% increase in reported scams since the start of lockdown, while citizens advice reckons one in three people have been targeted by a covid scammer. taxpayers to lose billions to virus fraud - reportscam warning over nhs test and tracefake lockdown fines among scams targeting public some scams manipulate their victims by urging people to invest and "take advantage of the financial downturn".  others impersonate well-known subscription services to trick people to part with their cash and personal information. some criminals even pose as representatives from the nhs test and trace service to fool people into giving away their personal details. "we urge people to follow the advice of the take five to stop fraud campaign to keep their money and personal information safe from fraudsters," said ms worobec. the campaign encourages people to be suspicious of any unsolicited contact and "stop, challenge and protect" when they receive any messages out of the blue. covid-19 financial support scams 1. fake government emails, which look like they are from government departments offering grants of up to £7,500. the emails contain links which steal personal and financial information. 2. scam emails offering access to "covid-19 relief funds", which encourage victims to fill in a form and hand over their personal information. 3. official-looking emails offering a "council tax reduction". the emails contain links that lead to a fake government website, which harvests personal and financial information. 4. benefit recipients are offered help in applying for universal credit, but fraudsters grab some of the payment as an advance for their "services". health scams 5. phishing emails claiming that the recipient has been in contact with someone diagnosed with covid-19. they lead to fake websites that are used to steal personal and financial information or infect devices with malware. 6. fake adverts for non-existent coronavirus-related products, such as hand sanitizer and face masks, which simply take the victim's cash and send them nothing. lockdown scams 7. fake emails and texts claiming to be from tv licensing, telling people they are eligible for six months for free because of the pandemic. victims are told there has been a problem with their direct debit and are asked to click on a link that takes them to a fake website, which steals their personal and financial information. 8. emails asking people to update their tv subscription services payment details by clicking on a link which is then used to steal credit card information. 9. fake profiles on social media sites are used to manipulate victims into handing over their money. criminals will often use the identities of real people to strike up conversation with their targets.  10. fake investment opportunities are advertised on social media sites, encouraging victims to "take advantage of the financial downturn". bitcoin platforms are using emails and adverts on social media platforms to encourage unsuspecting victims to put money into fake companies using fake websites. the local government association (lga) also warned about fake coronavirus test kits and hand sanitizers, but said scamsters are also flogging medical products claiming to treat or prevent covid-19. it said local councils have also heard of messages about how to claim school meals funding and government grants, and criminals cold-calling care home residents offering to do shopping errands. one scam involves a message sent by text or email stating that the recipient has been fined £60 for leaving their home more than once a day, the lga warned. links in these messages connect to websites that steal a victim's personal information or hack into their computer or phone. "people need to be cautious. if something doesn't seem right or sounds too good to be true, don't hesitate to end a phone call, bin a letter, delete an email or shut the door," an lga spokesperson said. citizens advice warned that the most vulnerable people are often at greater risk of being contacted by a scammer. dame gillian guy, chief executive of citizens advice, said: "while so many people have pulled together to help and support each other through the challenges of coronavirus, opportunistic scammers have instead chosen to prey on unsuspecting victims. "we've had nearly a quarter of a million views of our web pages on scams during this pandemic and we're urging everyone to only use trusted sources of information and be on the lookout for signs of a potential scam." the charity's research showed almost half those with a disability or long-term illness had been targeted, while half of those with an increased risk of covid-19 or those shielding had been too. more than half of those who have lost personal income due to the virus had also been contacted. a customer database left unsecured online by virgin media contained details linking some customers to pornography and explicit websites. the researchers who first discovered the database told the bbc that it contained more information than virgin media suggested. such details could be used by cyber-criminals to extort victims. virgin media told the bbc only a small number of customers had these sensitive details in the database. the uk telecoms company revealed on thursday that one of its "marketing databases" containing details of 900,000 people was open to the internet and had been accessed "on at least one occasion" by an unknown user. on friday, it confirmed that the database contained details of about 1,100 customers who had used an online form to ask for a particular website to be blocked or unblocked.  it said it was in the process of contacting customers again about specific data that may have been stolen. when it first confirmed the data breach on thursday, virgin media warned the public that the database contained phone numbers, home addresses and emails. however, researchers at cyber-security firm turgensec - which found the database - said it contained more intimate details. "stating to their customers that there was only a breach of 'limited contact information' is from our perspective understating the matter potentially to the point of being disingenuous," one researcher told the bbc. "these highly sensitive details could be used by cyber-criminals to boost the chances of extorting money from victims." virgin media said the database did not "provide information as to what, if anything, was viewed" by affected customers. the company said almost all of those affected were virgin customers with television or fixed-line telephone accounts, although the database also included some virgin mobile customers as well as potential customers referred by friends as part of a promotion. it added that all individuals had been given details on how to contact the company for support and advice.  a representative of turgensec said virgin media's security had been far from adequate.  "the information was in plain text and unencrypted, which meant anyone browsing the internet could clearly view and potentially download all of this data without needing any specialised equipment, tools, or hacking techniques," they told the bbc. virgin media, which is owned by us cable group liberty global, said it took security very seriously. it said it had informed the information commissioner's office (ico) of the data breach, as required.  a spokeswoman for the ico said it was investigating, and added: "people have the right to expect that organisations will handle their personal information securely and responsibly. when that doesn't happen, we advise people who may have been affected by data breaches to be vigilant when checking their financial records." virgin media said it would be emailing those affected, in order to warn them about the risks of phishing, nuisance calls and identity theft. the message will include a reminder not to click on unknown links in emails, and not to provide personal details to unverified callers.  from caravans to kitchen tables, and podcast production to pregnancy, i've been speaking to many women in and around the technology sector about how they have adapted to the challenges of working during the coronavirus pandemic.  research suggests women across the world have shouldered more family and household responsibilities than men as the coronavirus pandemic continues, alongside their working lives. and they share their inspirations, frustrations but also their optimism. "i have a new business and a new life," says clare muscutt, who lost work, her relationship and her flatmate as lockdown hit.  this tuesday is ada lovelace day - an annual celebration of women working in the male-dominated science, technology, engineering and maths (stem) sectors. and, this year, it has a very different vibe. initially it felt like business was paused. confidence went.  i've now gone fully online. the tech is there to support it. and weirdly, i think i've benefited from it. i'm booking up months ahead.  the digital skills gap is costing the economy billions. people, and even entire corporations, are so far behind.  then, you add in the complication of covid. and you think everything is going to go backwards. but actually, digital is growing exponentially.  i'm dyslexic, so i have relied on tech to help get me where i am today. i'm a firm believer that tech can really enable anyone from anywhere to start their own business and make it fly. my husband is a neuroscientist. when covid first hit, he was redeployed to the front line. and we had no childcare.  there were days when i sat in front of my laptop and cried. getting the right balance is difficult. in september, my daughter started school. in the future, when she becomes more independent, i will go all out on my business. there is absolutely no doubt that this has been the hardest year of my life.  i lost 40% of my business in two days, at the start of lockdown.  i had worked so hard to get to where i had got to. and i was filled with fury that a pandemic had taken it away. every pitch we get, i throw as much energy at the screen as possible.  i find myself working longer hours to be more visible to my clients.  i am driven by this fear that next week i could lose another couple. but i have now got 60% more business back in. i'm used to working from home. but the biggest problem was having my eight-year-old daughter suddenly with me 24/7, when the schools closed.  we all knew it might come. but when it did, it happened so fast. it was really difficult having to work and do childcare at the same time.  before lockdown, i would have said it was impossible. i'm embarrassed to say that she spent a lot of time watching netflix and disney+. but i am the breadwinner. and my partner was working full time on our house renovation because, until it was finished, we were living in a static caravan. i'm now launching a new business, this time in edtech [education technology]. i'm looking to do as many things as possible to protect those closest to me and prepare for the next "impossible thing" to happen.  what i used to do doesn't exist anymore.  i had the life and career of my dreams. and i had left the corporate world to do it.  as soon as the pandemic hit, my diary just emptied.  the clients i had work booked with shut down any unnecessary spend.  then, my relationship ended. my best friend moved out of our flat. and suddenly, the only contact i had with others was through zoom.  i started having conversations with women in a similar field to me. and we started sharing how we were feeling. it made me think: "how can i bring this style of conversation to the world, to help inspire others?" and that led me into podcasting.  after a bad experience, i taught myself how to do the production. and it has led to me being paid to interview tech leaders elsewhere.  my bills are now getting paid. and the podcast is helping me to form an online community. before the pandemic, i was living for the future - always looking forward to the next big event or trip away. now, i don't know what the future holds or whether things will ever go back to the way they were. but if they don't, it's ok - i have a new business and a new life. i have worked from home before. and at the start of lockdown, i didn't think it would be that much of a big deal. but it turned out that working from the kitchen table was very uncomfortable. eventually, i finally got an old desk from a friend. and i was so happy.  since lockdown began, i've seen quite a few cyber-security issues with phishing and invoice re-direction - when a malicious actor gets hold of a legitimate invoice and resends it but changes the bank details.  sometimes, it's small amounts here and there, sometimes large amounts.  it's often difficult to recover the money. i'm also four months pregnant with our first child. i need new clothes. but if you go to the shop you can't try anything on. and i have no idea what size i am. plus, i am limited in the times i can go out. i don't drive. it has to fit around work. and we can't go at busy times, because standing in long queues is so exhausting.  i feel like i've lost my independence.  in addition, they haven't yet figured out how they are going to hold antenatal classes.  i feel like i won't meet any other parents until my kid starts school. before lockdown, my husband and i ran our own company, producing user guides and written content for websites. business income dropped by about two-thirds during lockdown.  we weren't eligible for any government grants. and because we still had a small amount of work, we couldn't furlough ourselves.  it felt like we were slowly marching our family towards a cliff edge.  in may, to my astonishment and relief, i was offered my dream job, remote writing about the internet and technology. working from home with the children has been the most difficult thing we've ever done.  my son is seven. he is very scared.  sometimes, we can't spend the time with him that we would like to. and most screen-time rules have gone completely out of the window.  the real issue for us now is testing.  my young daughter caught covid in july. and she recently had a temperature again. but it took six days to get a test result, so my son was off school again. and my husband was working until midnight to fit everything in. for ada lovelace day, we usually hold a cabaret-style event in central london. instead, we are holding five free webinars and have organised a 50-hour online extravaganza, with blog and social media posts and a youtube playlist.  in november, we're running our first online conference, which will span 29 time zones.    i've had to find and evaluate livestreaming services and conference platforms, something that i've never had to consider before.  it's been quite stressful working out how to run our online events affordably and dealing with the additional work involved.  our income has been badly affected by the pandemic as companies have less money to spend on event sponsorship, so we're also having to think about how we're going to make up that shortfall.  despite that, i'm really excited by what we're doing.  covid forced us to rethink everything. and some of the changes we've made may become permanent.  2020 has been a hard slog. and we're not out of the woods yet. but i hope we'll emerge stronger and able to reach and support more women in stem.  there are a lot of unanswered questions about the twitter hack on wednesday night - but one thing most agree on is it could have been far worse.  potentially thousands of people were scammed out of money after hijacked accounts of prominent verified users promised to double the money fans sent them in the cryptocurrency bitcoin.  using twitter's internal systems, the cyber-criminals' messages had a reach of at least 350 million people. and it looks like it made them about $110,000 (£86,800) in the few hours that the scam was active. it was an unprecedented attack on privacy, trust and security.  but experts say the hackers could have caused far more damage. as the boss of a smaller messaging service put it: "thank god for greed." twitter has huge engagement in the us, japan, russia and the uk.  it is the platform of choice for some of the most powerful and prominent people in the world.  their posts have moved financial markets and caused diplomatic incidents. with the us presidential election less than four months away, there are now valid questions to be asked about whether twitter can be relied upon in the lead up to the vote. president donald trump's account was not taken over in the hack. but many were watching to see if it would fall after his democrat rival joe biden's account tweeted out the scam. "we already know russia is planning to meddle in the 2020 election just as they did in the 2016 election," dr heather williams, from king's college london, said. "social-media manipulation is one of their favourite tools. "so this hack shows just how vulnerable social-media platforms are and how vulnerable americans are to disinformation.  "if something bigger was at stake, such as the presidency, this could have really disastrous consequences and undermine our democratic processes." the security implications of the hack are also wide-reaching, not just for twitter but for all social networks early suggestions are the hackers managed to access administration privileges, which allowed them to bypass the passwords of any account they wanted. twitter appeared to confirm this in a tweet saying: "we detected what we believe to be a co-ordinated social-engineering attack by people who successfully targeted some of our employees with access to internal systems and tools." "social-engineering" could mean one of several things. it might imply a targeted phishing operation - a common tactic employed by cyber-criminals, who find out which individuals have the keys to a system they want to enter and then target them with personal emails that trick them into handing over details. or it might mean the perpetrators managed to convince one or several staff members to go rogue, by offering a financial inducement or other means. major us twitter accounts hacked in bitcoin scamthe benjamin netanyahu twitter hack that never was the technology company is going to face huge pressure to be more specific. "twitter's reputation is the cost of this cyber-attack," world economic forum cyber lead william dixon said. "this is a major security breach for twitter.  "the worst in its history. "more cyber-resilience is needed across the ecosystem to be able to protect social media users around the world." twitter is not answering reporters' questions directly but said it had taken "significant steps to limit access to internal systems" while it investigated. the company also said it was "looking into what other malicious activity [the hackers] may have conducted or information they may have accessed". the chief executive of the messaging service element has raised the possibility confidential data was also exposed. "it's highly likely private direct messages were accessible for a short time," matthew hodgson said. "next time, harvesting sensitive information could fuel a wave of extortion or something much worse." the idea twitter has the ability to take over people's accounts no matter what security they have may shock some. but experts say it is a necessary part of any membership-based service. facebook, snapchat, instagram and youtube have been approached for comment on their security arrangements.  none has responded. but facebook's former chief security officer alex stamos told bbc news all consumer-facing companies needed a way to be able to help consumers recover hacked or otherwise locked-out accounts. "the change that can be made here is that twitter can restrict this ability for high-risk accounts to a much smaller number of users or create tools that require one person to initiate and another to approve the change," he said. "this is, apparently, what they have already done for president trump's account, following an incident in 2017.  "they will need to vastly expand these protections." beyond a potential loss of trust, twitter may now face legal consequences too. the eu's general data protection regulation (gdpr) says organisations such as twitter have to show "appropriate" levels of security. and if data-protection officers judge twitter failed to take adequate measures to protect european users, it could be fined. earlier this year, the company's chief executive, jack dorsey, lost control of his account for 20 minutes. and in 2010, twitter settled with the federal trade commission after it was alleged hackers had obtained unauthorised administrative control, including the ability to send out phony tweets from then-president-elect barack obama and fox news. earlier this month john, who believed he was due a tax refund, received a text message from "infohm". "i was bleary-eyed from waking up early," he says. "the excitement of what my tax refund would be overwhelmed my normally pretty rational brain." he followed online instructions, and unwittingly provided personal and bank account details to online fraudsters. hm revenue and customs (hmrc) is now warning young adults to be wary of such phone scams. in april and may, the government body says, fraudsters target vulnerable people with fake messages to coincide with the time legitimate rebates are being processed. because younger adults typically manage their finances via their mobile phones, they can be particularly susceptible to an approach via text message, hmrc warns.  last spring, hmrc received 250,000 reports of such scams. can't save money? is this the answer?minimum wage: how high could the lowest salaries go?fake hmrc phone scams 'surge by 360%' john, who did not want the bbc to use his real name, says he is now "cringing" over falling for it. but he says the page he was directed to was "the spitting image" of a gov.uk site. after entering his national insurance number and date of birth, it informed him he was due a credible sounding rebate of £462. he ended up providing details including his bank details and even his mother's maiden name.  "i didn't even think twice about giving out this information to this website," he says. "they just have to catch you off guard. if i'd have got the text yesterday at 11:30am after a good night's sleep, i'd have been like: 'this is clearly a scam'." john reported the breach to hmrc and action fraud, and has since put in place extra online security on his accounts.  "you don't need to tell me i'm an idiot," he says. "i know i'm an idiot, this is one of the most idiotic things i've ever done." the hmrc says it never requests bank details by text or phone, and that it is shutting down hundreds of sites a week associated with these schemes, which are known as "phishing scams". "we are determined to protect honest people from these fraudsters who will stop at nothing to make their phishing scams appear legitimate," says head of customer services at hmrc, angela macdonald. "if you receive one of these emails or texts, don't respond and report it to hmrc so that more online criminals are stopped in their tracks." scammers also use phone calls, voicemails and emails, which may contain computer viruses designed to copy personal or financial information. 