iran is running two surveillance operations in cyber-space, targeting more than 1,000 dissidents, according to a leading cyber-security company. the efforts were directed against individuals in iran and 12 other countries, including the uk and us, check point said. it said the two groups involved were using new techniques to install spyware on targets' pcs and mobile devices. and this was then being used to steal call recordings and media files. one of the groups, known as domestic kitten or apt-50, is accused of tricking people into downloading malicious software on to mobile phones by a variety of means including: repackaging an existing version of an authentic video game found on the google play storemimicking an app for a restaurant in tehranoffering a fake mobile-security appproviding a compromised app that publishes articles from a local news agencysupplying an infected wallpaper app containing pro-islamic state imagerymasquerading as an android application store to download further software the american-israeli company's researchers documented 1,200 victims being targeted by the campaign, living in seven countries. there had been more than 600 successful infections, it said. the second group, known as infy or prince of persia, is said to spy on the home and work pcs of dissidents in 12 countries, extracting sensitive data after tricking people into opening malicious email attachments. the iranian government has not commented on the report. domestic kitten's operation was first identified in 2018. and check point said there was evidence it had run at least 10 campaigns since 2017. four of these were still active, with the most recent beginning in november 2020.  and it was using an iranian blog site, telegram channels and text messages to lure people into installing its infected software, which the researchers have dubbed furball, which could: record calls and other soundstrack the device's locationcollect device identifiers,grab text messages and call logssteal media files, including videos and photos,obtain a list of other installed applicationssteal files from external storage the 600 successful infections are said to have included dissidents, opposition forces and people belonging to the kurdish ethnic minority in: iranthe usgreat britainpakistanafghanistanturkeyuzbekistan the other group, infy, is said to have been operating as far back as 2007.  its most recent activity had targeted pcs, with fake emails with attractive content, usually with an attached document, check point said. one example provided was of a document apparently about loans being offered to disabled veterans. once the document was opened, a spying tool was installed and sensitive data stolen, the company said. two documents recently used are said to have included a photo of an iranian governor, with alleged contact details. the researchers said infy's capabilities were "far superior" to most other known iranian campaigns, thanks to its ability to be highly selective about its targets and to have generally have gone undetected. "it is clear that the iranian government is investing significant resources into cyber-operations," check point cyber-research head yaniv balmas said. "the operators of these iranian cyber-espionage campaigns seem to be completely unaffected by any counter-activities done by others, even though both campaigns had been revealed and even stopped in the past. "they have simply restarted." a text-message scam that infects android phones is spreading across the uk, experts have warned. the message - which pretends to be from a package delivery firm, prompts users to install a tracking app - but is actually a malicious piece of spyware. called flubot, it can take over devices and spy on phones to gather sensitive data, including online banking details. network operator vodafone said millions of the text messages were already being sent, across all networks. "we believe this current wave of flubot malware sms attacks will gain serious traction very quickly, and it's something that needs awareness to stop the spread," a spokesman said.  customers should "be especially vigilant with this particular piece of malware", he said, and be very careful about clicking on any links in a text message.  other networks, including ee and three, followed with warnings of their own. the national cyber security centre (ncsc) later issued guidance about the threat, including advice on what to do if you have already downloaded the attacker's application by mistake. "if users have clicked a malicious link it's important not to panic - there are actionable steps they can take to protect their devices and their accounts," the ncsc said in a statement. the malware also has the ability to send more text messages to an infected user's contacts, helping it spread.  "the seriousness of these malicious text messages is underlined by vodafone making the decision to alert its customers," said ben wood, chief analyst at ccs insight. "this has the potential to become a denial-of-service attack on mobile networks, given the clear risk that a rogue application can be installed on users' smartphones and start spewing out endless text messages.  "the broader risk for users is a loss of highly sensitive personal data from their phones," he added. fresh warnings over royal mail parcel scamex-police officer 'devastated' by £3k text scamfake nhs vaccine messages sent in banking scam while text message scams claiming to be about a package delivery firm are common, they have mostly focused on phishing - trying to trick the user into filling in a form with bank details and other information. this newest wave differs because it tries to install malicious software on the phone itself - and because of the scale of its spread.  one version of the scam reported online pretends to be a text message from dhl, with a link to a website for parcel tracking. if someone using an android phone clicks on the link, they will be taken to a page "explaining" how to install the parcel tracking app using something called an apk. apk files are a way of installing android apps outside of the secure google play store. by default, such applications will be blocked for security reasons, but the scam page includes instructions on how to allow the installation. that can be confusing, as there are some niche genuine cases for installing those kind of apps - such as downloading the fortnite video game, which was removed from the official app store amid a major legal row between its owner and google.  apple iphone users are not affected as those phones cannot install android apks. in a blog post detailing the scam, security researcher paul morrison wrote that he expects the "success rate would be low" due to the hurdles involved. but he said: "with the number of sms being sent out, just a 0.1% success rate could be very profitable." the flubot malware has also spread in other countries in recent months - notably spain, germany and poland. kate bevan, computing editor at consumer magazine which? said people have to be "wary" of texts.  "if you're not sure, contact the delivery company's official customer service helpline," she said. "as ever, it's important to make sure that your mobile phone is up to date with security patches. consider also installing mobile security software from a trusted brand." industry body mobile uk said users who receive a suspicious message should forward it to 7726 to report it, a spokesman said - and then delete the message. dozens of al jazeera journalists were allegedly hacked with the help of spyware developed by israeli firm nso group, cyber-security researchers say. details of the alleged hack targeting 36 members of staff, including tv anchors and executives, have been published in a report by citizen lab at the university of toronto. it says a vulnerability in iphone operating system software was used. nso group has denied the allegation, saying it “lacks any evidence". citizen lab researchers say they concluded with “medium confidence” that two attackers who had spied on the phones of al jazeera journalists were doing so on behalf of the saudi arabian and uae governments. “the phones were compromised using an exploit chain that we call kismet,” the researchers write. in july 2020, kismet was a "zero-day" attack - meaning apple was supposedly unaware of the flaw - and it worked on at least ios 13.5.1, and could hack apple’s iphone 11, the latest model at the time. citizen lab was first alerted to potential spying activity on the journalists’ phones when contacted by tamer almisshal, an investigative filmmaker at al jazeera. mr almisshal had expressed concerns that his iphone had been hacked and so allowed citizen lab to monitor activity on the device. “we noticed that on 19 july 2020, his phone visited a website that we had detected in our internet scanning as an installation server for nso group’s pegasus spyware, which is used in the process of infecting a target with pegasus,” the citizen lab researchers allege in their report. hitting back at the allegations, a spokesman for nso group said: “this memo is based once again on speculation and lacks any evidence supporting a connection to nso.” he added that the firm provided software to governments, who used it tackle serious organised crime and terrorism, and did not operate the software itself. nso group would continue “to work tirelessly to make the world a safer place”, he added. firm 'impersonated facebook to spread spyware'israeli spyware firm pitches to be covid-19 saviourwhatsapp sues israeli firm over hacking claims the exploit described by the citizen lab team fails to work on iphones running ios 14, the latest version. users should update to this version immediately, the researchers said. a spokesman for apple added that ios 14 was “a major leap forward” in protecting against such attacks. “the attack described in the research was highly targeted by nation states against specific individuals,” he said. “we always urge customers to download the latest version of the software to protect themselves and their data.” the bbc has contacted al jazeera and the london embassies of saudi arabia and the uae for comment. israeli security company nso group impersonated facebook as part of a ploy to get users to install its phone-hacking software, a new report alleges. an investigation from news site motherboard claims a facebook security lookalike domain was set up to spread nso's pegasus hacking tool. it also claimed to have found evidence that servers inside the united states were used to spread the spying tool. nso denies the allegations, labelling them "recycled conjecture". the pegasus spyware, once installed, can read text messages and other data on the phone, track its location with gps, and access the microphone and camera.  the israeli firm is already locked in a legal battle with facebook, which alleges it deliberately spread its software over whatsapp, compromising hundreds of phones - including those of journalists and human rights activists. it is also, separately, accused of supplying software to the saudi government which was allegedly used to spy on journalist jamal khashoggi before he was killed. facebook's complaint alleged nso operated the spyware itself. but nso has asked the court in california to dismiss the case, in part because it says it never uses its spyware - only sovereign governments do.  whatsapp sues israeli firm over hacking claimsisraeli spyware firm pitches to be covid-19 saviour motherboard's latest investigation revolves around a former nso employee who, it is claimed, provided it with details of a server allegedly designed to distribute the spyware by tricking people into clicking links. the server investigated was connected to several different web addresses over a number of years - including one that impersonated facebook's security team, the motherboard report claims. facebook told the bbc it had gained ownership of the domain in question four years ago, to stop it being misused.  other domains used over time included "a link a person could click on to unsubscribe themselves from emails or text messages... and package tracking links from fedex," motherboard reports. but nso fiercely denies that it has ever used its products itself. "we are incredibly proud of our technology's role in tackling crime and terrorism, but nso does not operate any of its products," a spokesman said in a statement. "as we have repeatedly made clear, nso products are offered to and operated solely by verified and authorised government agencies." motherboard also alleged that one of the servers used to launch the malware was located within the united states - something that nso says is not possible. facebook has previously made similar allegations in the whatsapp legal case. "we stand by our previous statements that nso group products cannot be used to conduct cyber-surveillance within the united states, and no customer has ever been granted technology that enables targeting phones with us numbers," a spokesman said.  prof alan woodward from the university of surrey said the possibility of us-based servers being used to deploy the spyware raised "more questions than answers". "they appear to have some sort of infrastructure in the us," prof woodward said. "the question is whether the us government is aware of it." a facebook spokesperson said: "nso group is responsible for cyber-attacks against human rights activists, journalists, and diplomats, in violation of us law.  "we are committed to protecting the security of our community and are seeking to hold them accountable in court." nso said its official stance remained that which it had put forward in the legal case with facebook. "revisiting and recycling the conjecture of nso's detractors... doesn't change the overall truth of our position, which we have stated to the us federal court in california," it said. "factual assertions on all the above have been provided as part of the official court record, and we do not have anything else to add at this time." a controversial israeli cyber-security company is marketing software that uses mobile phone data to monitor and predict the spread of the coronavirus.  nso group says it is in talks with governments around the world, and claims some are already testing it. the surveillance software-maker is being sued by whatsapp for allegedly sending malware to the phones of human rights activists and journalists. it has denied that allegation "in the strongest possible terms". the company also faces a lawsuit in which it is accused of supplying software to the saudi government, which the country is said to have used to spy on the journalist jamal khashoggi before his murder.  last year, nso responded to that claim by saying that its products were "licensed for the sole use of providing governments and law enforcement agencies the ability to lawfully fight terrorism and crime". but now, it is pitching its tools as a means to help better understand how coronavirus is spreading. "the software is here to solve a global pandemic," a spokesman told the bbc.  "this is about giving governments the ability to understand the situation they're facing and make informed decisions. it's a really powerful piece of software."  nso says its employees will not have access to any data, but its software will work best if a government asks local mobile phone operators to provide the records of every subscriber in the country.  each person known to be infected with covid-19 could then be tracked, with the people they had met and the places they had visited, even before showing symptoms, plotted on a map. but john scott railton, of the toronto-based privacy watchdog citizen lab, said governments would be foolish to use the system. "the last thing that we need is a secretive company claiming to solve a pandemic while refusing to say who its clients are," he said. nso gave the bbc a demonstration of how its system works, via a video conference link.  a heat map of israel showed hotspots where there were a high number of cases of the virus.  zooming in, individual phones of people with the infection were mapped, and represented by an anonymised id number. details were also shown of other phones they had encountered and the relevant times and locations. the engineer demonstrating the system said that it could be used to: predict where the next cluster of cases was likely to bewhen to move ventilators to hospitals most in needwhen to allow certain regions of a country to come out of quarantine nso said a number of governments around the world were piloting the system, but would not reveal their identity or whether any of them had started using it in the field. a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exerciselook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreakvideo: the 20-second hand wash a spokesman added that the firm had made it a requirement that the authorities involved were operating in compliance with europe's gdpr privacy law or their own data protection rules. software requiring mobile networks to hand over customer data represents a very different approach from the contact-tracing apps being considered in the uk and many other european countries.  such apps, would use a phone's bluetooth connection to alert users if they had been in contact with someone infected with the virus, and would almost certainly be voluntary to download. citizen lab previously investigated nso's pegasus software. it found evidence that it had been secretly installed on the phones of journalists and dissidents in countries from mexico to the middle east.   "nso has shown that it is uniquely capable of damaging public trust," said mr railton. "i can't think of a better brand name to make citizens nervous about a governmental tracking effort." there has been controversy in israel over a separate project which could see its defence ministry work with nso group to assess the likelihood that individual citizens might spread the coronavirus. defence minister naftali bennet proposed giving nso access to highly sensitive data about citizens collected by the shin bet security services. but israeli lawmakers attacked the plan, warning that handing data to a private company raised serious concerns. messaging app whatsapp has said indian journalists and activists are among some 1,400 people worldwide who were targeted with israeli-made spyware.  whatsapp filed a lawsuit against nso group on wednesday, alleging it was behind cyber-attacks that infected devices in april and may. the israeli company, which makes software for surveillance, has strongly disputed the allegations. india has 400 million whatsapp users, making the country its biggest market. hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. whatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attackon the frontline of india's whatsapp fake news warwhy india wants to track whatsapp messages "we believe this attack targeted at least 100 members of civil society, which is an unmistakable pattern of abuse," whatsapp said in a statement. after discovering the cyber-attacks in may, whatsapp quickly rolled out a fix, adding "new protections" to their systems and issuing updates. cyber experts at toronto-based internet watchdog citizen lab helped whatsapp identify cases where the suspected targets of this attack were members of civil society, such as human rights defenders or journalists. citizen lab said it had identified more than 100 cases of "abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe, ranging from africa, asia, europe, the middle east, and north america". "indian journalists and human rights activists have been the target of surveillance and while i cannot reveal their identities and the exact number, i can say that it is not an insignificant number," whatsapp spokesperson carl woog told the indian express newspaper. mr woog said the service had contacted each of the people targeted and informed them about the cyber attack. whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are encrypted end-to-end. this means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. the firm, which was acquired by facebook in 2014, said this was the first time an encrypted messaging provider had taken legal action of this kind. israel's nso group said it would fight the allegations. "in the strongest possible terms, we dispute today's allegations and will vigorously fight them," the company said in a statement to the bbc. "the sole purpose of nso is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime." a security bug that has infected thousands of smartphones has been uncovered by campaign group the electronic frontier foundation (eff). working with mobile security firm lookout, researchers discovered that malware in fake messaging designed to look like whatsapp and signal had stolen gigabytes of data. targets included military personnel, activists, journalists and lawyers. researchers say they traced the malware to a lebanese government building. the threat, dubbed dark caracal by the researchers, looks as if it could come from a nation state and appears to use shared infrastructure linked to other nation-state hackers, the report said. the malware takes advantage of known exploits and targets mainly android phones. data was traced back to a server in a building belonging to the lebanese general security directorate in beirut, according to researchers. "based on the available evidence, it is likely that the gdgs is associated with or directly supporting the actors behind dark caracal," the report said. "people in the us, canada, germany, lebanon, and france have been hit by dark caracal. targets include military personnel, activists, journalists, and lawyers, and the types of stolen data range from call records and audio recordings to documents and photos," said eff director of cybersecurity eva galperin.  "this is a very large, global campaign, focused on mobile devices. mobile is the future of spying, because phones are full of so much data about a person's day-to-day life." mike murray, vice-president of security intelligence at lookout said: "dark caracal is part of a trend we've seen mounting over the past year whereby traditional advanced persistent threat actors are moving toward using mobile as a primary target platform." in a statement published on the lookout blog, google said it was confident that the infected apps were not downloaded from its play store. "google has identified the apps associated with this actor, none of the apps were on the google play store. google play protect has been updated to protect user devices from these apps and is in the process of removing them from all affected devices." the researchers believe dark caracal has been operating since 2012 but it has been hard to track because of the diversity of seemingly unrelated espionage campaigns originating from the same domain names. over the years dark caracal's work has been repeatedly misattributed to other cybercrime groups, the researchers said. in november, afghanistan moved to ban whatsapp and telegram as a way to stop insurgent groups from using encrypted messaging. and in december, iran moved to restrict use of the apps after a series of anti-establishment protests. use of an app that can steal data would give nation states much more information than simply banning them, said prof alan woodward, a cybersecurity expert at the university of surrey. "it is always hard to prove that a nation state is involved. during the cold war, countries made use of mercenaries and that's what we are seeing online now." he said it was unclear where the infected apps had been downloaded from. "google is saying that they were not downloaded from there but it is difficult to know where else they came from. it may be that people are getting suckered into something that looks like an official site. people need to be careful what they are downloading." a programmer who allegedly tried to sell stolen surveillance tools worth $50m (£38m) on the dark web has been caught and charged in israel. the software was reportedly stolen from a security firm called nso group, known for creating surveillance software.  the former nso developer is believed to have stolen the code after learning he was going to be sacked. israel's justice ministry said if the sale had gone ahead it could have harmed state security. in a statement, the ministry said the accused was a senior programmer at nso who had access to the firm's development systems including its stores of source code. the ministry said once the programmer had downloaded company code, he posed as a hacker and sought to sell the software on dark web markets. it is claimed that he asked for a payment of $50m to be made in crypto-cash to make it harder to trace.  the unidentified individual who agreed to buy the software contacted nso before the deal went ahead. a sting was set up and the suspected thief was arrested. daily newspaper israel hayom reported that the indictment against the former nso employee said: "the defendant's ‎actions seriously jeopardised the nso group and ‎could have led to its collapse." the programmer has been charged with theft, intent to compromise national security, pursuing an unlicensed defence transaction and disruption of a computer system. a statement released by the defendant's legal team said its client "never tried to undermine national security". they added: ‎"we believe the court will get to the truth in this ‎case. we will prove these allegations to be ‎disproportionate and baseless." nso ‎group came to prominence in 2016 after being accused of creating software that can overcome security protections on apple iphones.  nso software has also been implicated in a long-running spyware scandal in mexico. in response, nso has said it only sells to authorised agencies and has no control over the way its tools are used. three senior opposition politicians in mexico have been targeted by spyware on their mobile phones, researchers say. an internet watchdog based in canada, citizen lab, said the surveillance software is only sold to governments. last week, citizen lab also said that 12 journalists and human rights lawyers had been targeted.  at the time, the mexican president, enrique peña nieto, described accusations that the government was involved as false.  mr peña nieto said surveillance software was only used for matters of national security and for fighting organised crime. he added that he had ordered an investigation by the attorney general's office.  citizen lab said the head of the conservative national action party (pan), ricardo anaya, a pan senator, roberto gil zuarth, and the party's communications secretary, fernando rodriguez, were targeted.  "there is strong circumstantial evidence implicating the government of mexico", the watchdog said.   the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by the israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. it is usually sent in a text message to a smartphone.  if the person taps on it, the spyware is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - are hacked. international experts investigating the suspected abduction and murder of 43 students in mexico three years ago were targeted with government spyware, an internet watchdog says. the israeli-made spyware was only sold to governments, according to citizen lab, which is based in canada. mexican journalists, human rights activists and opposition politicians have made similar allegations.  mexico's government denies using the spyware to snoop on its opponents. it says it has only used intelligence tools in the interest of national security or to fight organised crime. the students, from an all-male college in the southern town of ayotzinapa, were declared dead after disappearing in 2014 in the south-western state of guerrero.  their relatives have accused the authorities of a cover-up. some mexicans have held out hope that members of the group may yet be found alive.  the foreign experts, convened by the inter-american commission on human rights, were called in to investigate the disappearance of the students. the team has repeatedly accused the mexican government of blocking their work. mexican politicians 'targeted by spyware'government ‘hacked critics’ phones'mexico missing students: knowns and unknowns citizen lab, which is based at the university of toronto, says in its analysis that it has found forensic evidence to show that the investigators' mobile phones were being targeted by israeli-made spyware. one member, spanish investigator carlos beristain, said the attempt to install spyware could be a "more serious crime given the diplomatic protected status" the group held.  attempts to infect their devices reportedly took place in march 2016, shortly after the group accused the mexican government of hampering its inquiry, and as they were preparing a final report.  the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by the israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. it is usually sent in a text message to a smartphone. if the person taps on it, the spyware is installed, and huge amounts of private data - including text messages, photos, emails, location data, the device's microphone and camera - are hacked. one message sent to investigators in march was from someone pretending to pass on personal information about a funeral. "here are the details. i hope you can come," it read.  according to the new york times, the same link was sent last year to an academic trying to impose a sugar tax in mexico and, in that case, the message was confirmed as a pegasus trick.  mr beristain said he had received the message but had not opened it as he suspected some form of espionage.   on the evening of 26 september 2014, a group of 43 mexican students disappeared in guerrero.  they had been studying at an all-male teacher training college that has a history of left-wing activism. before they disappeared, the students reportedly clashed with municipal police while on their way to a protest. police opened fire on their buses.  according to the official government report, the group was then handed over by corrupt officers to members of a local drugs gang. the government version of events says their bodies were burnt in a fire at a rubbish dump. authorities identified one student, alexander mora, from charred bone they said they had found at the site, and they partially identified another.   the international investigators have disputed the fire theory, saying they have yet to find sufficient evidence.  the mexican attorney general has declared them all dead but their relatives still want proof of what happened that night, and justice.  the case is so well known in the country and across latin america that the students are widely known simply as "the 43".  mac users are being warned about new variants of malware that have been created specifically to target apple computers. one is ransomware that encrypts data and demands payment before files are released. the other is spyware that watches what users do and scoops up valuable information. experts said they represented a threat because their creators were letting anyone use them for free. the two programs were uncovered by the security firms fortinet and alienvault, which found a portal on the tor "dark web" network that acted as a shopfront for both. in a blog, fortinet said the site claimed that the creators behind it were professional software engineers with "extensive experience" of creating working code. those wishing to use either of the programs had been urged to get in touch and provide details of how they wanted the malware to be set up. the malware's creators had said that payments made by ransomware victims would be split between themselves and their customers. researchers at fortinet contacted the ransomware writers pretending they were interested in using the product and, soon afterwards, were sent a sample of the malware. analysis revealed that it used much less sophisticated encryption than the many variants seen targeting windows machines, said the firm. however, they added, any files scrambled with the ransomware would be completely lost because it did a very poor job of handling the decryption keys needed to restore data. "even if it is far inferior to most current ransomware targeting windows, it doesn't fail to encrypt victim's files or prevent access to important files, thereby causing real damage," wrote the researchers. the free macspy spyware, offered via the same site, can log which keys are pressed, take screenshots and tap into a machine's microphone.  in its analysis, alienvault researcher peter ewane said the malicious code in the spyware tried hard to evade many of the standard ways security programs spot and stop such programs. mr ewane said mac users needed to start being more vigilant as malware creators targeted them. "as os x continues to grow in market share we can expect malware authors to invest greater amounts of time in producing malware for this platform." statistics gathered by mcafee suggest that there are now about 450,000 malicious programs aimed at macs - far fewer than the 23 million targeting windows users. aamir lakhani from fortinet said mac users should make sure their machines were kept up to date with the latest software patches and be wary of messages they receive via email. "mac ransomware is definitely becoming bigger," he told eweek. "although market share is still small, hackers know that there is valuable data on the mac." apple declined to comment on the developments. some of the laptops given out in england to support vulnerable children home-schooling during lockdown contain malware, bbc news has learned. teachers shared details on an online forum about suspicious files found on devices sent to a bradford school. the malware, which they said appeared to be contacting russian servers, is believed to have been found on laptops given to a handful of schools. the department for education said it was aware and urgently investigating. can you get a free laptop or cheap broadband?covid 19: the huge challenges of home-schooling a dfe official told bbc news: "we are aware of an issue with a small number of devices. and we are investigating as an urgent priority to resolve the matter as soon as possible. "dfe it teams are in touch with those who have reported this issue." "we believe this is not widespread." geo, the firm which made the laptops, told the bbc: "we have been working closely with the department for education regarding a reported issue on a very small number of devices. we are providing our full support during their investigation.  "we take all matters of security extremely seriously. any schools that have concerns should contact the department for education." according to the forum, the windows laptops contained gamarue.i, a worm identified by microsoft in 2012.  the government has so far sent schools more than 800,000 laptops, as it tries to distribute more than a million devices to disadvantaged pupils who may not have access at home.  "upon unboxing and preparing them, it was discovered that a number of the laptops were infected with a self-propagating network worm," wrote marium haque, deputy director of education and learning at bradford council. she recommended that schools also check their networks "as an added precaution". information security consultant paul moore told the bbc that the gamarue worm "presents a very severe threat to any pc or network". "ideally users should reboot into safe mode and run a full scan with an anti-virus product," he said. "however with this type of malware, it is advisable to seek professional assistance in order to ensure it has been correctly removed." the malware in question installs spyware which can gather information about browsing habits, as well as harvest personal information such as banking details. "the fact that these devices were not checked and scrubbed before being sent to vulnerable children is a concern," said george glass, head of threat intelligence at security firm redscan. flaws in apple's ios operating system have been discovered that made it possible to install spyware on a target's device merely by getting them to click on a link. the discovery was made after a human rights lawyer alerted security researchers to unsolicited text messages he had received. they discovered three previously unknown flaws within apple's code. apple has since released a software update that addresses the problem. the two security firms involved, citizen lab and lookout, said they had held back details of the discovery until the fix had been issued. the lawyer, ahmed mansoor, received the text messages on 10 and 11 august. the texts promised to reveal "secrets" about people allegedly being tortured in the united arab emirates (uae)'s jails if he tapped the links. had he done so, citizen lab says, his iphone 6 would have been "jailbroken", meaning unauthorised software could have been installed. "once infected, mansoor's phone would have become a digital spy in his pocket, capable of employing his iphone's camera and microphone to snoop on activity in the vicinity of the device, recording his whatsapp and viber calls, logging messages sent in mobile chat apps, and tracking his movements," said citizen lab. "we are not aware of any previous instance of an iphone remote jailbreak used in the wild as part of a targeted attack campaign, making this a rare find." the researchers say they believe the spyware involved was created by nso group, an israeli "cyber-war" company. "[it is] the most sophisticated spyware package we've seen," said lookout. "it takes advantage of how integrated mobile devices are in our lives and the combination of features only available on mobile - always connected (wi-fi, 3g/4g), voice communications, camera, email, messaging, gps, passwords, and contact lists." this is in many ways a textbook case of the cybersecurity community acting precisely as it should. researchers were alerted to a vulnerability, investigated it, and made apple, the company responsible for fixing it, aware so it could issue a fix. apple, to its credit, understood the severity and acted quickly - it took them just 10 days.  these types of vulnerabilities are rare and extremely lucrative. a genuine "zero day" - the name given to previously unknown security flaws - can be sold for upwards of $1m when it affects a major piece of software like apple's ios. in this case, it looks like several zero days were combined to make a hugely sophisticated attack package.  now attention is shifting to the secretive organisation said to be behind the attack, the nso group, described by researchers as a cyber arms dealer, and described by itself as firm capable of being a "ghost" on victims' devices - working undetected but gathering enormous amounts of private data.  according to privacy international, nso group has sold its products to clients in mexico and in panama - but little is known about other deals involving the company which is said to be worth more than $1bn.  pressure is also being put on francisco partners ltd, the san francisco-based venture capital firm that has a controlling stake in nso group. it is yet to comment on the controversial attack. nso has issued a statement acknowledging that it makes technology used to "combat terror and crime" but said it had no knowledge of any particular incidents and made no reference to the specific spyware involved. "these are rather rare zero-day flaws," commented security expert prof alan woodward, referring to the technical name for previously unknown vulnerabilities. "to have several found at once is even rarer. as can be seen from how these have been exploited to date, it represents a serious threat to the security and privacy of ios users.  "apple has been remarkably responsive in providing fixes for these issues, so i would encourage any ios users to update to the latest version of the operating system." for its part, apple has limited itself to saying: "we were made aware of this vulnerability and immediately fixed it with ios 9.3.5. we advise all of our customers to always download the latest version of ios to protect themselves against potential security exploits." a french company offering "invisible pc spy software" has been criticised after it said its product could be used "to find out if your son is gay". listing a series of "clues", the company, fireworld, suggested that "hacking his facebook account" and seeing if he had visited gay websites could confirm a parent's suspicions. the company has since taken down the article.  the post was highlighted by a french youth lgbt rights group. l'amicale des jeunes du refuge's thread about fireworld's article (in french) was retweeted by french secretary of state for equality marlène schiappa, who wrote that it showed that "homophobia and sexism have their roots in the same gender stereotypes. we will fight them together". in its online article, since removed, the firm said that "family is fundamental. that's why the sexual orientation of your children, directly responsible for the continuation of your family, is very important to you". the article went on to list the clues that might cause a parent to suspect that their son might be gay. the article makes no mention of female homosexuality.  they include "taking good care of himself", being more interested in reading and theatre than in football, being shy as a young boy, having certain piercings and liking female singers and divas. it then suggested a variety of ways to be sure, including "monitoring his facebook use", seeing "if he has visited gay forums" and "spying on his private messages". in a response to l'amicale des jeunes du refuge, fireworld wrote that "the article had the sole aim of improving search engine optimisation and was never intended to be read by humans". "we regret not having reflected on the consequences of this type of content..." the firm emailed. "we sincerely apologise to all those who may have felt offended by this content," it added. however, the english language version of fireworld's site suggests a range of scenarios in which a potential customer might want to monitor someone else's computer, including "control your teenage offspring's pc", checking "what your employees are doing" and "detecting infidelity in your marriage or relationship". it is not legal in france to install spyware on someone else's computer in order to monitor it, without their knowledge. fireworld points out to customers that they must comply with the law when using their products. however, it says, "installing [its product] to make sure that your children are not endangering themselves on the internet or on social networks, come[s] closer to being legal". french newspaper liberation reports that spyware vendors are usually more subtle in their claims for their products, as french law does not allow advertising which incentivises the illegal use of such tools. how can i keep my children safe online?us apps let parents 'spy' on their kidscheap spyware used by stalkers there are a range of products on the market that offer parental monitoring and report back to parents on what their children have been doing online. sos homophobie fights against homophobia in francestonewall offers help and advice to the lgbt community throughout the uk on a range of subjectsfamilies and friends of lesbians and gays offer support to parents, families and friends flaws in apple's ios operating system have been discovered that made it possible to install spyware on a target's device merely by getting them to click on a link."this is always a possibility with technology. the smarter you get, others as well find smarter techniques in intruding into your devices," says ahmed mansour, the human rights lawyer who discovered the flaw. a spyware company faces legal action after a us court ruled that its software was used unlawfully to intercept an unwitting man's messages. javier luis started an online friendship with catherine zang in 2009. her husband used webwatcher spyware to track the pair's private emails and online chats over several months, as evidence for divorce proceedings. the us appeal court has now ruled 2-1 that mr luis can sue the software firm awareness technologies. mr luis claims the software, which logged web history, searches, chat logs and email threads, illegally intercepted his communications with ms zang. legal action by mr luis against mr zang and other unnamed parties has been settled. but mr luis pursued his case against awareness after a district court initially dismissed his claims against the company. while the two never met in person, mr luis said he developed "a caring relationship" with ms zang.  mr zang grew suspicious that his wife was conversing with other men, and installed the webwatcher software on a shared computer to intercept her messages in real time. he read copies of the messages on the webwatcher servers, and used the information to divorce ms zang on terms favourable to him in 2010. webwatcher is marketed as parental monitoring software for ensuring children are using technology appropriately. its terms of use require that the software is only installed on devices belonging to the purchaser or with permission to monitor a phone or computer belonging to someone else. awareness technologies denied mr luis' assertions that it intercepted the communications - illegal under the us wiretap act - arguing it merely stored them as data. it claimed that the term intercept applied only to situations in which a device captures a communication "either before [it] reaches the intended recipient or contemporaneous with the transmission not after it reaches the destination where it is placed in electronic storage."  the court of appeals disagreed. it concluded that mr luis "has indeed alleged enough facts to reasonably infer that awareness intercepted his communications". awareness has been contacted for comment.  the case has now been sent back to the lower court for it to continue. the oscar-winning director of a documentary investigating the murder of jamal khashoggi says he does not believe saudi arabia's crown prince will ever face formal investigation for his killing. a newly-released us cia report has implicated mohammed bin salman in the death of the saudi journalist, who was killed in the saudi consulate in istanbul in october 2018. bryan fogel's film the dissident explores what happened to khashoggi and who might have ordered his murder. his body has never been recovered and the saudi crown prince has denied involvement. in november 2019, five men were tried and sentenced to death in a saudi court for khashoggi's killing and three others were jailed. the death sentences were later commuted to 20 years in prison. using transcripts obtained from the turkish government, fogel's film suggests that khashoggi, a journalist for the washington post who had exiled himself to the us, was suffocated and then dismembered inside the consulate. the film also investigates the use of spyware and phone hacking against saudi activists living in exile. these include canada-based video blogger omar abdulaziz, with whom khashoggi was in close contact before his death. biden raises human rights in call with saudi kingwhat happened to jamal khashoggi? "i don't believe the crown prince is ever going to face an interpol arrest warrant that'll pick him up when he lands his private jet somewhere and haul him off to the hague or extradite him to istanbul or the us," says fogel. "that's never going to happen.  "this is the environment that we find ourselves in, which is constantly in conflict with human rights. leaders like mohammed bin salman see their money can buy their way out of these sorts of events, and there isn't accountability unless there's a cumulative and combined effort from countries." fogel says he welcomes a re-evaluation of ties between the us and saudi arabia under the biden administration, citing the close relationship the two countries had during donald trump's presidency. "biden's definitely not following the playbook of donald trump," the us director comments. "signing off [on] the declassification and releasing the cia findings into khashoggi's murder is a blow to us-saudi relations." according to fogel, the recent release of human rights activist loujain al-hathloul after almost three years in detention is "clearly a peace offering to the biden administration". released saudi activist's family 'want justice'saudi woman activist jailed despite global outcry "there appears to be support from both democrats and republicans to re-examine the relationship with saudi arabia in the light of the war in yemen, so time will tell," he continues. fogel's last investigative film, icarus, won an oscar in 2018 for exposing the scandal of state-sponsored russian doping in athletics. the dissident was also critically acclaimed following its world premiere at the sundance film festival in 2020, yet fogel queries why global streaming services including amazon and netflix have not bought the film for their platforms.  "i think the film lays bare that unfortunately there is a contrition and a cowardice amongst these huge companies to take on subject matter that might affect their shareholder value, or their business or investor interests, even though they know hundreds of millions of people would be interested in watching the film," he argues. fogel is also critical of amazon owner jeff bezos, the world's richest person, who also owns the washington post, the newspaper that employed khashoggi. "he chose not to acquire this film for global distribution on his platform," fogel says. "but a few months later, he acquired souq, the so-called amazon of saudi arabia." amazon actually acquired souq.com in 2017, subsequently rebranding it as amazon.ae. "is amazon still doing business with saudi arabia? yes," says fogel. "is he actually standing up for the murder of his employee? he's certainly made some statements, but actions speak louder than words." fogel's film includes footage of a 2017 vigil held near the saudi consulate in istanbul which bezos attended and spoke at. "i'm not mad at any of these companies," the director goes on. "it's business. but it's disappointing as this sort of behaviour eventually allows murders like jamal khashoggi's to happen, and when there's no standing up for content like this it becomes increasingly difficult for filmmakers like myself. but i'm optimistic that the climate will change." the aim of the dissident, its director says, is not to make "an archival film". "it's to make a living, breathing thriller that looks deeply into khashoggi's murder and the ramifications of it," he contends. fogel also interviews khashoggi's fiancée, turkish scientist hatice cengiz, as well as omar abdulaziz, whose activism was financially supported by khashoggi. khashoggi fiancee sues saudi crown princesaudi court commutes khashoggi death sentences the film puts forward the theory that this act may have tipped jamal khashoggi into being viewed as an activist and dissident himself, rather than just an outspoken journalist. "but i think even in the final weeks of jamal's life he never saw himself as a dissident," fogel argues. "he was holding onto the notion that he was a journalist. yet what you see in the film is that the work he was doing and what he was writing about made him one, at least as we understand it. "jamal khashoggi was someone who wanted to make his country a better place and was silenced in the most horrific way," fogel concludes. "in the film, you'll see that the choice he faced was either to stay in saudi arabia and be silent, or leave saudi, risk his life and go into exile and speak truth to power. it cost him his life." the dissident will have its uk premiere online at the glasgow film festival on 6 march. follow us on facebook, or on twitter @bbcnewsents. if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. surveillance software which can snoop on mobiles, tablets and pcs was stolen from the vendors, hacking team, last month.the attackers published the software on several internet sites making it openly available to download.  uk security firm, 4armed, gave bbc click's dan simmons a live demonstration of the mobile phone spyware that has been sold to more than 30 governments and intelligence agencies globally.  4armed said that using it to spy on someone without their consent would be against the law.this is additional online-only content from clickmore at bbc.com/click and @bbcclick.  a leading catalan pro-independence politician has accused the spanish government of spying on his mobile phone. roger torrent, speaker of the catalan parliament, spoke out after details of the alleged espionage were revealed in a joint investigation by the guardian and el pais newspapers. mr torrent said it was proof of "political spying against political opponents" in spain. madrid has denied the allegations. the guardian and el pais newspapers reported that mr torrent had been warned that his phone was targeted last year using pegasus, an israeli-made spyware tool. the makers of the tool say it is only sold to governments to track criminals and terrorists. mr torrent was warned about the spyware by researchers working with whatsapp.  speaking on tuesday, mr torrent called for a full investigation into what happened. "this is the first time that we have concrete confirmation of what many of us knew and had been denouncing... we knew that illegal practices were being directed against the independence cause. now we have certain proof," he said. catalan crisis in 300 wordscatalonia's quarrel with spain explained the office of spanish prime minister pedro sánchez denied the accusations. a spokeswoman told afp news agency the government was not aware that mr torrent and another former catalan lawmaker "had been subjected to a hacking attack via their mobile phones". "in spain, any intervention concerning a mobile phone is always done legally," she said. catalonia's drive for independence has plunged spain into its biggest political crisis in 40 years. the region had its autonomy suspended for almost seven months by madrid after a failed bid to break away in 2017. in october last year, spain's supreme court sentenced nine catalan politicians and activists to jail terms of between nine and 13 years for that independence bid.  stalkers and abusers are increasingly using cheap spyware to monitor and harass their victims, claims a charity. tracking and listening devices, often disguised as everyday objects, retail online for under £50 and are easy to install, says the digital-trust. there are no official figures but "digital abuse" is often experienced by victims of domestic violence, it adds. people with abusive partners should also be wary of gadgets given to their children, the charity warns. "eighteen months ago i issued advice to domestic violence groups about fathers gifting smartphones or even allowing them to take them on access visits because it is so easy for abusers to use them as surveillance," said jennifer perry, chief executive of the newly formed digital-trust. "i recommend children are given inexpensive pay as you go phones when visiting an abusive parent." ms perry said incidents of digital abuse - ranging from surveillance to accessing voicemails, emails and cloud accounts, is escalating in the uk. in addition cheap surveillance devices - small gps trackers, listening devices and cameras hidden inside books, lamps, plug sockets and carbon monoxide detectors, are freely available online despite some of them being illegal. "if i have a domestic violence victim i assume there will be some type of digital abuse - it's not the exception, it's the assumption," she told the bbc. ms perry added that in her experience it is more likely to happen to female victims. "i get a lot of criticism for saying it but i don't see this level or type of surveillance used against male victims," she added. "i see men using it against women. it is rare to see a man targeted surveillance-wise by women." ms perry began working in the field of e-crime in 2005. she said that often victims need very specific advice, which is not easily available. "safety advice is often done by topic but if you don't know what you're looking for it doesn't help," she added. "we'll ask a series of questions that deal with the symptoms - are you being harassed by your partner? is he showing up where you are? has he had access to your house or your pc?" smartphone owners may have not set up their device themselves so may not know what has been installed on it, she added. "the main thing i try to do is stop any form of data leaking. that's my number one objective," ms perry said. "if you have a stalker and they get access to some information about you it's like the rush they get from a gambling addiction. "you're taking about jealous or obsessive personalities. one stalker googled a colleague of mine 40,000 times in a year. another looked at someone's facebook page 2,500 times in one month." criminal organisations are offering subscription services to other fraudsters to teach them a scam in which they impersonate their victims. fraud prevention organisation cifas said fraudsters were sharing tips and getting more sophisticated in their attempts to steal money. cases of a particular scam targeting shoppers, which often spikes at christmas, have tripled this year. criminals harvest personal information then buy items in someone else's name. the so-called facility takeover fraud sees victims reveal personal or financial information to someone they believe is genuine, such as supposed bank staff.  criminals then use this information to access bank or credit card accounts to order items in the victim's name. online banking accounts can also be taken over as a result of phishing, spyware or malware scams on computers. cifas - a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies - said its intelligence team had seen evidence of criminals charging each other for information on the dark web. this is the part of the internet that is invisible to search engines. criminals have long shared so-called sucker lists, detailing people who they have previously tricked in a scam and could be potential victims again. there were 7,461 reports in the retail sector from january to september recorded by cifas, compared with 2,365 in the same period in 2019. there was also a big rise in cases of fraudsters using the same kind of scam to order mobile phones. cifas said techniques used by criminals were becoming more sophisticated as they were finding new ways to circumvent security measures put in place by companies.  beware christmas parcel delivery scams, banks warnbanks 'too often blaming customers' for fraud mike haley, chief executive of cifas, said: "we often notice a spike in this activity over the festive period, and so i would urge everyone to remain vigilant if contacted by anyone claiming to be from an organisation they trust, such as a bank, mobile phone company or even the police." last month, banking trade body uk finance warned criminals were using the cover of christmas shopping deals to roll out data harvesting scams, attempting to prompt consumers to provide details through phishing emails. these messages often advertised cheap goods and could involve fraudsters impersonating genuine organisations and businesses. the take five to stop fraud campaign is urging people to: stop: taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safechallenge: could it be fake? it is ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. only criminals will try to rush or panic youprotect: contact your bank immediately if you think you've fallen for a scam and report it to action fraud an "extremely complex" and "stealthy" spying program has been stealing data from isps, energy companies, airlines and research-and-development labs, a security company has said. with a "degree of technical competence rarely seen", regin had probably taken years to develop, symantec said.   and a nation state may have written it to serve its spying agencies' needs. the program had been used in "systematic spying campaigns" over the past six years, symantec said. aimed at windows users, regin slowly infiltrated its targets, taking care at each stage to hide its tracks, the company said. "many components of regin remain undiscovered and additional functionality and versions may exist," it added.  "its design makes it highly suited for persistent, long-term surveillance operations against targets." jason steer, director of technology strategy at security firm fireeye, said: "these types of toolkits have existed for a few years now." he added: "it's a challenge to the whole security industry as to how they find these malicious and sophisticated pieces of code," security firms were better at spotting such things even though regin and its ilk were built to fool modern-day tools that look for malicious programs and monitor activity to spot anything suspicious. the techniques regin used to sneak on to a network and communicate with its creators were very complicated, he said. "it's clearly been written by someone that has much more than making money in mind," he said. mr steer said the tip-offs about regin and similarly sophisticated threats often came from government agencies who kept an eye on the cyber spying capabilities of both friendly and hostile nations.  victims had been infected via spoofed versions of well-known websites and by exploiting known vulnerabilities in web browser software, said symantec in a detailed analysis.  in a blogpost, security company f-secure said it had first encountered regin in 2009 after investigating what was making a server on the network of one of its customers crash repeatedly. closer investigation revealed the culprit to be regin which was attempting to insert itself into the heart of the software controlling the server. chief research officer mikko hypponen said: "finding malware of this calibre is very rare.  "we're still missing big parts of the puzzle." "nevertheless, it's obvious this is a very complicated malware written by a well-equipped nation-state." he added that the malware did not look like it originated in china or russia - the places suspected of creating many other stealthy, spying programs. security firm kaspersky lab said it too had spotted regin being used to infiltrate networks and steal data. in one attack, regin was used to gather administrative details for a mobile phone network in the middle east that, if used, would have given attackers control over the system.  symantec said it had captured the first copies of regin in a small number of organisations between 2008 and 2011. soon after, the malware had appeared to have been withdrawn, but a new version found in 2013 was now being actively used.  only about 100 regin infections have so far been identified. it is believed to provide the ability to: remote access victims' computers remotelytake screenshotscontrol a mouse pointersteal data recover deleted files symantec said that regin had a lot in common with other malicious programs such as flame, duqu and stuxnet, also thought to be written by nation states to aid their spying efforts. intelligence agencies' secretive techniques for spying on mobile phones are seldom made public. but a uk security firm has shown the bbc how one tool, sold around the world to spooks, actually works. it allows spies to take secret pictures with a phone's camera and record conversations with the microphone, without the phone owner knowing. hacking team's software was recently stolen from the company by hackers and published on the web. almost any data on a phone, tablet or pc can be accessed by the tool and it is fascinating how much it can do. when joe greenwood, of cybersecurity firm 4armed, saw that source code for the program had been dumped online by hackers, he couldn't resist experimenting with it. although he had to fiddle with the code to make it work, it only took a day before he had it up and running. the software consists of the surveillance console, which displays data retrieved from a hacked device, and malware planted on the target device itself. 4armed was careful to note that using it to spy on someone without their consent would be against the law. after testing the software on his own pc, mr greenwood soon realised the scope of its capabilities.  "you can download files, record microphones, webcam images, websites visited, see what programs are running, intercept skype calls," he told the bbc. the software even has some in-built features to track bitcoin payments, which can be difficult to associate with individuals without additional data about when and how transactions were performed. in a live demonstration of the system, mr greenwood showed how an infected phone could be made to record audio from the microphone, even when the device was locked, and use the phone's camera without its owner knowing. "we can actually take photos without them realising.  "so the camera in the background is running, taking photos every number of seconds," explained mr greenwood. it was also possible to listen in on phone calls, access the list of contacts stored on the device and track what websites the phone user was visiting. both mr greenwood and 4armed's technical director, marc wickenden, said they were surprised by the sleekness of the interface.  both point out, though, that customers could be paying upwards of £1m for the software and would expect it to be user-friendly, especially if it was intended for use by law enforcers on the beat. for the tracked user, though, there are very few ways of finding out that they are being watched. one red flag, according to mr greenwood, is a sudden spike in network data usage, indicating that information is being sent somewhere in the background. experienced spies, however, would be careful to minimise this in order to remain incognito. at present, spy software like this is only likely to be secretly deployed on the phones and computers of people who are key targets for an intelligence agency. the version of the spyware distributed online is now likely to be more easily detected by anti-virus programs because companies analysing the source code are in the process of updating their systems to recognise it. security expert graham cluley said it should be as easy to detect as malware. "the danger will be that malicious hackers could take that code and augment it or change it so it no longer looks like hacking team's versions, which might avoid detection," he added. the best course of action, said mr cluley, is to keep operating systems and software as up to date as possible. in a statement, a spokesman for hacking team said it advised its customers not to use the software once the breach was discovered. "as soon as the event was discovered, hacking team immediately advised all clients to discontinue the use of that version of the software, and the company provided a patch to assure that client surveillance data and other information stored on client systems was secure.  "from the beginning hacking team has assumed that the code that has been released is compromised," he said. the spokesman added that the software would be operated by clients of hacking team, not hacking team itself, and therefore no sensitive data relating to ongoing investigations had been compromised in the breach. "of course, there are many who would use for their own purposes the information released by the criminals who attacked hacking team. "this was apparently not a concern of the attackers who recklessly published the material for all online.   "compiling the software would take considerable technical skill, so not just anyone could do that, but that is not to say it is impossible," he said. a leading computer security company says it has discovered one of the most sophisticated pieces of malicious software ever seen.  symantec says the bug, named regin, was probably created by a government and has been used for six years against a range of targets around the world. once installed on a computer, it can do things like capture screenshots, steal passwords or recover deleted files.   experts say computers in russia, saudi arabia and ireland have been hit most. it has been used to spy on government organisations, businesses and private individuals, they say.  researchers say the sophistication of the software indicates that it is a cyber-espionage tool developed by a nation state.  they also said it likely took months, if not years, to develop and its creators have gone to great lengths to cover its tracks. sian john, a security strategist at symantec, said: "it looks like it comes from a western organisation. it's the level of skill and expertise, the length of time over which it was developed." symantec has drawn parallels with stuxnet, a computer worm thought to have been developed by the us and israel to target iran's nuclear program.  that was designed to damage equipment, whereas regin's purpose appears to be to collect information.  ebay is barring listings for a smartphone after reports the model is pre-installed with spyware in its chinese factory. a german security firm reported on tuesday that the android-powered star n9500 sent personal data to a computer server in china, adding that the trojan could not be removed. it said the malware was disguised as the legitimate google play store app. the handset remains on sale on amazon, which could not be reached for comment. but ebay said it was rolling out the ban globally. "due to reports that some star 9500 smartphones are loaded with spyware, ebay is not allowing the sale of these devices as a precautionary measure," a spokesman told the bbc. although the brand star is far from being a household name, the handset may have appealed to some customers because of its close resemblance to the samsung galaxy s4 coupled with the fact it sells for about a third of the cost. security firm g data said it was alerted to the case after receiving tip-offs from its customers. "the spyware runs in the background and cannot be detected by users," it said. "unbeknownst to the user, the smartphone sends personal data to a server located in china and is able to covertly install additional applications.  "this makes it possible to retrieve personal data, intercept calls and online banking data, read emails and text messages or control the camera and microphone remotely. "the program also blocks the installation of security updates." the associated press news agency has reported that although several shenzhen-based firms used ebay and other sites to sell the model, it had been unable to track down the manufacturer. if the allegations are true, it is not known whether the manufacturer itself would have been aware of what was being done at its plant.  this is not the first time that a chinese factory has been accused of shipping devices preinstalled with malware. in 2012 microsoft reported that several pc makers in the country had been found to load malicious programs onto their computers. then, last year german firm e-plus reported that some of its china-made android smartphones were being shipped with sd memory cards infected with a computer worm. if you thought you were pretty clever knowing that spyware refers to pieces of malicious code put on computers in order for cybercriminals to steal your passwords and other ids, think again. these days it has a much more literal sense, at least if the latest documents leaked by former us national security agency (nsa) contractor edward snowden to the der spiegel newspaper are to be believed. the documents allege that spies are regularly using tools more usually associated with cybercriminals. it is alleged uk spy agency gchq operatives created fake web pages that injected malware into the computers of engineers running one of belgium's largest telecommunications companies in order to be able to access its systems. "we have to realise that a number of gchq staff are indeed hackers,  but licensed by the state and protected by the intelligence services act 1994 and ministerial warrant," said digital forensic expert prof peter sommer. "they will deploy every type of hacker trick to achieve their aims." it is a view endorsed by dwayne melancon, chief technology officer of security firm tripwire and a man used to looking at malicious code as part of his daily job.  "it seems you can't throw a rock these days without hitting a nation state surveillance operation," he said. it raised some pretty fundamental questions about whom we trust online, said prof alan woodward, security expert and lecturer at surrey university, who has undertaken consultancy work for gchq. "when the criminals start to look like law enforcement, that is a very dangerous practice," he said. "where do you draw the line? is it with engineers who control machines or should they be allowed to have malware on everyone's pc 'just in case' they want to use it as a route to some high value target?" there is now a growing body of evidence to suggest that the use of malware is standard practice for the police as well as the intelligence services. in the summer it was revealed that the fbi used mobile malware to infect and control a suspect's handset. and in september the fbi admitted that it had planted hidden code on the dark net, a part of the internet favoured by cybercriminals because it is unreachable by standard search engines. security researchers who dissected the code found it exploited a security hole in firefox, which reported back to a mysterious server in northern virginia.  meanwhile leaked german police documents suggest that the federal criminal police office is working on its own surveillance software, which it hopes to have ready by the end of 2014.  prof sommer said: "i'd hope that the intelligence service uses highly targeted malware.  "so if they target someone specifically, they send an email with a booby trap - but they will only be sending it to the target and the malware wouldn't have any self-replicating properties." but mr melancon is not so sure, particularly if the authorities are using so-called "watering hole" websites, which are popular with specific groups of users. in the belgian case, gchq is alleged to have targeted linkedin and tech news site slashdot in order to lure the engineers it was targeting. "such sites are notoriously indiscriminate," said mr melancon. " you can limit the risk of accidental infection of uninvolved persons, but you can't eliminate that risk entirely.  "collateral damage and inadvertent surveillance of non-targeted individuals is almost certain."  the other big question raised by the allegations published by der spiegel is just whom the spooks are after. if you hear the word "target" from an intelligence agency, you probably assume they are referring to a terrorist or some other individual intent on harm.  what the belgian case reveals is that engineers can also be targets. so is it ethical to put malware on the computer of an innocent employee who just happens to have access to a computer system you may want to look at? "if the result is damaging or destroying data or property, then it could certainly be deemed unethical by a reasonable person.   "likewise, violating the civil liberties of an individual crosses the ethical line. you can rationalise damage to engineers by lumping them into a collective as part of 'their organisation', but this is very subjective," said mr melancon. for its part, gchq offered a pretty standard response to the particular allegations about breaking into belgian servers. "all gchq's work is carried out in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework, which ensure that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate, and that there is rigorous oversight, including from the secretary of state, the interception and intelligence services commissioners and the intelligence and security committee," it said. the only way to be sure you too do not become a "target" is to "consider all networks untrustworthy", according to robert hansen, technical evangelist at whitehat security. "unfortunately, there isn't much hope for the individual because most of the things that would otherwise secure the user have historically been controlled by groups that have close ties to the government," he said. he is talking about the companies that register websites and encryption certificates. sir tim berners lee, inventor of the world wide web, has described attempts by spy agencies to crack encryption as "appalling and foolish". but through it all the general public seems to have been remarkably sanguine. prof sommer said: "in germany and the us people are outraged but in the uk that is less the case.  "people are rather proud of what gchq did during the war and they think it probably is not going to affect me." what the snowden leaks have dispelled once and for all is any lurking suspicion that the security forces are some bumbling johnny english sort of outfit. "the fact is that intelligence agencies are using advanced techniques actually more advanced than those used by criminals," said amichai shulman, chief technology officer of security firm imperva. "we have enough proof now that governments do have the necessary technology and personnel that can effectively fight cybercrime. they just chose to put it to a different use." germany's justice minister has called for a national and state level probe into the use of controversial computer software to spy on people. the german state of bavaria has admitted using the spyware, but claimed it had acted within the law. three other states have also confirmed they have used spyware in order to investigate serious criminal offences, a german newspaper reports. use of the software was exposed by a german hacker group. the berlin-based chaos computer club (ccc) said it had analysed a "lawful interception" malware programme called federal trojan, used by the german police force. they found that, once installed, the programme allows its operators to monitor exactly what the user is looking at - from which websites they have visited, to the emails they send and receive and the calls made through skype. "the malware cannot only siphon away intimate data but also offers a remote control or backdoor functionality for uploading and executing arbitrary other programs," the group wrote on its website. the program, it said, had "significant design and implementation flaws", which made "all of the functionality available to anyone on the internet". the ccc had analysed a laptop allegedly belonging to a man accused of illegally exporting pharmaceuticals. his lawyer claims the trojan program was installed on his client's computer when it passed through airport customs. bavaria interior minister joachim herrman has confirmed that state officials have been using the software since 2009 - though he made no mention of any specific incidents - and insisted that they had acted within the law. however, he promised a review of the software's use. the german broadcaster deutsche welle reported on tuesday that three other states - baden-wurttemberg, brandenburg and lower saxony had confirmed using spyware, although it is not clear if all four states had used the same software. justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger has called on the federal and state governments to launch an investigation into the matter. "trying to play down or trivialise the matter won't do," she said. "the citizen, in both the public and private spheres, must be protected from snooping through strict state control mechanisms." the bbc's stephen evans says the incident has sparked a row because germans, given the country's nazi and communist past, feel strongly about spying on citizens. germany's constitution stipulates strict protection against it, he adds. with whatsapp confirming that its software was used to install spyware on phones, many are considering deleting the popular messaging app. however, experts say this is not the answer. there has been considerable outrage and worry in many countries including india, after whatsapp confirmed that some of its users were targeted with spyware.  some in the country have pointed fingers at the government, accusing them of being behind the hack, given that the group accused of creating the software, nso group, reportedly sells only to governments.  whatsapp has sued the company over the allegations, which it has strongly rejected. the indian government has also denied involvement.  some users have been looking at options other than whatsapp, including messaging apps like signal or telegram, believing that they are more secure. but experts say that whatsapp, an app used by approximately 1.5 billion people in 180 countries and 400 million in india, is bearing the brunt of a hack that is not completely its fault.  while a vulnerability in the app's video-calling feature allowed the spyware to go through without user intervention, it ultimately took over the phone because of gaps in the phone's operating systems. "the vulnerabilities the spyware exploited were at the level of the operating system, be it android or apple," vinay kesari, a technology lawyer specialising in privacy, said.  "if there's spyware in your handset, everything that is readable or even whatever that comes through your camera or mic is at risk," technology writer prasanto k roy said.  whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are encrypted end-to-end. this means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. "in this case, it doesn't matter if the app is end-to-end encrypted or not - once spyware is on your handset, hackers are able to see whatever is on your phone as you see it - this is already decrypted and in a readable form at this stage," mr kesari said.  "you may as well have unlocked your phone and handed it over," he added. "but importantly, this breach shows just how vulnerable operating systems are." much of the chatter has focused on switching to other messaging apps, particularly signal, which is known for its open source code - but does that mean your phone would be better protected against spyware? not necessarily, they say. "with signal, there is an added layer of transparency because they release their code to the public - so if you are a sophisticated coder, and the company says they have fixed a bug, you can access the code and see for yourself," mr kesari said.  "but that doesn't mean the app has an added layer of protection against such attacks." mr roy told the bbc that the attack went beyond the app.  "for those whose handsets were compromised, all their information was at risk - not just whatsapp," mr roy said.  as of now, there is no reason to believe that whatsapp is "any less safe" than other apps, he added.  in april, faustin rukundo received a mysterious call over whatsapp from a number he did not recognise.  he answered, but the line was silent and then it went dead. he tried calling back but nobody answered. he didn't know it but his phone had been compromised. as a rwandan exile living in leeds, mr rukundo was already privacy conscious. he searched for the number online and found the dialling code was from sweden.  strange, he thought. but he soon forgot about it.  then the number called once more. again nobody picked up.  there were also missed calls from other numbers he did not recognise and he began to get worried about his family's safety, so he bought a new phone.  within a day, the unknown number called again.  "i tried to answer and they hung up before i heard any voice," mr rukundo told the bbc.  "whenever i called back, no-one answered. i realised something was wrong when i started seeing files missing from the phone. "i spoke to my colleagues at the rwanda national congress and they too had similar experiences. they were getting missed calls from the same numbers as me." the rwanda national congress is a group that opposes the rwandan regime. it was not until may, when mr rukundo read reports that whatsapp had been hacked, that he realised what had happened.  "i first read the story about the whatsapp hack on the bbc and thought, 'wow, this could explain what's happened to me,'" he said. "i changed my phone and realised my mistake. they were following my number around and putting the spy software on each new device by calling the same number."   for months, mr rukundo was convinced that he and his colleagues were some of the estimated 1,400 people targeted by attackers exploiting the flaw in whatsapp. but it was only confirmed to him this week following a call from citizen lab at the university of toronto. for six months, the organisation has been working with facebook to investigate the hack and find out who was affected.  researchers there say: "as part of our investigation into the incident, citizen lab has identified over 100 cases of abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe." mr rukundo's profile as an outspoken critic of the rwandan regime is consistent with the sort of people who were targets for this spyware. it was allegedly built and sold by the israel-based nso group and sold to governments around the world. hackers used the software to spy on journalists, human rights activists, political dissidents and diplomats. mr rukundo says he has not had any calls since the original hack, but the experience has made him and his family feel paranoid and scared. "honestly, even before they confirmed this, we were gutted and terrified. it looks like they only bugged my phone for around two weeks but they had access to everything," he told the bbc. "not only my activity during that time but my whole email history and all my contacts and connections. everything is watched, the computers, our phones, nothing is safe. even when we talk, they could be listening. i still don't feel safe." mr rukundo fled rwanda in 2005 when critics of the government were being arrested and jailed. he says he fought to have his wife released after she was kidnapped and detained for two months on a family visit in 2007. facebook, the owner of whatsapp, is attempting to sue the nso group. the nso group denies any wrongdoing. in court documents, facebook accuses the company of exploiting a then-unknown vulnerability in whatsapp. the app is used by approximately 1.5 billion people in 180 countries.  the service is popular for its end-to-end encryption, which means messages are scrambled as they travel across the internet, making them unreadable if intercepted. the filing at the us district court of northern california describes how the spyware was allegedly installed.  the powerful software known as pegasus is an nso group product that can remotely and covertly extract valuable intelligence from mobile devices, by sharing all phone activity including communications and location data with the attacker.  whatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attackwhatsapp sues israeli firm over phone hacking claims in previous spyware attacks, victims have been tricked into downloading the software by clicking on booby-trapped web links. but with the whatsapp hack, facebook alleges that it was installed on victims' phones without them taking any action at all.  the company says that between january 2018 and may 2019, nso group created whatsapp accounts using telephone numbers registered in different counties, including cyprus, israel, brazil, indonesia, sweden and the netherlands. then in april and may, the victims were attacked with a phone call over whatsapp, it is claimed. the filing says: "to avoid the technical restrictions built into whatsapp signaling servers, defendants formatted call initiation messages containing malicious code to appear like a legitimate call and concealed the code within call settings. "disguising the malicious code as call settings enabled defendants to deliver it to the target device and made the malicious code appear as if it originated from whatsapp signaling servers." the victims would be completely unaware that they had been bugged. in some cases the only thing they noticed were mysterious missed calls in whatsapp logs.  the document states that facebook: believes the hack was an abuse of its computer networkwants an injunction stopping the nso group having any access to its platforms.accepts that nso group was allegedly carrying out the hacks on behalf of its customers, but facebook is going after the company as the architects who created the software nso group has been accused of supplying the spyware that let the killers of journalist jamal khashoggi track him down.  nso group denies involvement in that incident and says it will fight these latest allegations. "in the strongest possible terms, we dispute today's allegations and will vigorously fight them," the company said in a statement to the bbc.  "the sole purpose of nso group is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime." india's main cyber security agency, cert, has asked users to update whatsapp on their phones after the discovery of a potential vulnerability on older versions of the messaging app.  the potential issue could have been triggered by a video file sent from an unknown number. whatsapp said that it had no reason to believe users' phones were affected. news of the new issue came soon after whatsapp admitted that its software was used to install spyware on phones. facebook, which owns whatsapp, had announced the fix for the new vulnerability in the system a few days ago. pegasus breach: will quitting whatsapp make your phone safer?whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by spyware cert said that if users opened the video file, the software installed itself on the phone - in similar fashion to the pegasus malware, which is believed to have been used against journalists and activists.  the agency added that the vulnerability would have allowed attackers to access phones and make changes to the device, no matter where it was geographically located.  the issue would have required requires users to open the video file, unlike the more sophisticated pegasus which activated itself through a vulnerability in whatsapp's video calling function and did not require the call to be answered. the messaging app has also said it has issued a security update that should take care of the issue.  india has 400 million whatsapp users, making the country its biggest market. an ultra-orthodox jewish town with one of the highest rates of coronavirus cases in israel has been placed under effective lockdown. residents of bnei brak, just outside tel aviv, will only be allowed out in exceptional circumstances. only some key workers will be allowed in. a senior health official said almost 40% of the town probably had the virus, though his claim was refuted. overall, more than 7,000 israelis have been infected and 37 have died. across the country, people have been told to stay within a 100-metre (330 ft) radius of their homes; public gatherings have been banned; and anyone going outdoors has been told to cover their face with a mask or scarf. prime minister benjamin netanyahu, who is in voluntary self-isolation despite testing negative for the disease, has warned that further restrictions might be imposed to try to curb the spread of the virus. bnei brak was declared a "restricted zone" at a cabinet meeting on thursday night. earlier, police set up cordons around the town to reduce the flow of traffic moving in and out. the latest measures mean residents will only be allowed out of the town on a case-by-case basis. non-residents - other than security forces, essential services workers and journalists - will not be allowed in. coronavirus: a ticking time-bomb for the middle eastisraeli spyware firm pitches to be covid-19 saviour about 4,500 elderly residents - those deemed most at risk - will be evacuated from the town and quarantined in specially designated hotels, according to the jerusalem post newspaper. soldiers from the israeli military's paratroopers brigade were being deployed to help the homefront command, the paper said. bnei brak is only second to the much larger city of jerusalem in terms of the total number of coronavirus cases. on thursday, the head of the maccabi health service used by about half the 200,000-strong population of bnei brak told a parliamentary committee that about 38% of residents were likely to have the virus, and that there were probably tens of thousands of cases which had not been officially confirmed. however, israeli media later reported that according to the ministry of health and maccabi officials the figure was the result of a miscalculation. there has been growing disquiet in israel about the slowness of some ultra-orthodox communities to adopt official measures to reduce the spread of the virus. many ultra-orthodox live within large families in crowded neighbourhoods. their access to the internet and social media is also limited for religious reasons, meaning news and information from the outside world is comparatively poor. in some strictly religious communities, gatherings for prayer and celebrations including weddings have continued to take place, despite the nationwide ban.  however, two days ago prime minister netanyahu noted that there had been a "very positive shift" in the attitude of the ultra-orthodox towards the seriousness of the virus. correction 9 april 2020: this article has been amended to include an assertion that the claim by the maccabi health service official about the likely infection rate in bnei brak was based on an erroneous calculation. it was the week when we learned that a missed whatsapp call could plant spyware on your phone and when san francisco moved to ban facial recognition technology.  on tech tent we explore our attitudes to technology which can catch criminals - but also be used to track our every move. listen to the latest tech tent podcast on bbc sounds when whatsapp's owner facebook spotted a flaw in the app, which allowed an intruder to plant spyware on a phone with one missed call, it was unusually open about who might be behind it. the firm briefed journalists that the attack had "all the hallmarks" of a private company that works with governments to deliver spyware that takes over mobile phones. it was widely assumed that the company in question was israel's nso group, which has previously been accused of selling spyware called pegasus to agencies which use it to monitor human rights activists.  the university of toronto's citizen lab, which monitors digital attacks against civil society, has been tracking the nso group for some years.  its senior researcher john scott-railton tells tech tent that facebook's decision to be so upfront about who was responsible, suggests that it was "pretty fed up with the behaviour of the private spyware company". he says citizen lab had previously seen nso's pegasus spyware used to track dozens of journalists, lawyers and every kind of activist in mexico, via the old-fashioned method of persuading them to click on a link. but last sunday they had spotted the new method exploiting the flaw in whatsapp being used to target - unsuccessfully - a london-based human rights lawyer who works with some of the mexico activists. he says the spyware is quite insidious: "once it gets on to a phone, that phone is basically like a spy in the victim's pockets, the microphone can be turned on, encrypted chats can be taken off the phone, private photographs, and so on." nso group insists that its products have been used by law enforcement agencies in the battle against terrorism and wider criminal behaviour.  the israeli firm said in a statement: "nso's technology is licensed to authorised government agencies for the sole purpose of fighting crime and terror.  "the company does not operate the system and, after a rigorous licensing and vetting process, intelligence and law enforcement determine how to use the technology to support their public safety missions."  since earlier this year, the company has been majority owned by novalpina, a london-based private equity group whose chairman stephen peel is now on the board of nso. we asked him for an interview. he was not available but his pr team pointed us to an open letter written in april - before the whatsapp hack emerged - to a number of ngos including citizen lab. at some length it defends the previous conduct of the israeli firm and promises that under novalpina's ownership there will be a constant focus on respecting human rights: "we expect each company within our portfolio to act with integrity and in a manner that is socially responsible." another company under the spotlight over surveillance technology is amazon. at its annual general meeting next week, its shareholders will debate a motion calling on the company to stop selling its facial recognition system to the us government. the vote comes just after san francisco became the first city to ban its public bodies from using facial recognition, amid mounting disquiet about intrusive surveillance in public places. mary beth gallagher, representing catholic institutions investing in amazon, says there are concerns both about the quality of the technology and the way it could be used: "even if it's 100% accurate we don't want it to be used by law enforcement because of the impact it could have on society." just like nso, amazon insists its technology is used in really positive ways, such as helping to find victims of child trafficking.  but, asked whether it should be monitoring potential misuse of facial recognition by its clients, amazon web services tech evangelist ian massingham insists it is not their job: "the  right organisations to handle those issues are policy-makers and government." surveillance technology - whether that is facial recognition or spyware - is a very lucrative industry, shrouded in secrecy. but the companies behind it can themselves expect far closer monitoring from now on. listen to the latest tech tent podcast on bbc sounds  indian officials are likely to cite the whatsapp snooping controversy to push through a plan to compel digital companies to store data of indian users locally, multiple reports say.  tech experts confirmed that multiple government departments and agencies have proposed such demands. it was "a serious issue of national security", and "requires measures, including data localisation", officials were quoted as saying. experts called it a "bizarre response".  "this makes no sense at all. the location of the data had nothing to do with the pegasus breach," technology expert prasanto k roy told the bbc.  "whatsapp was very transparent about the breach and reported it to the authorities. what is important now, is to find out who did it and how." whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by spywarepegasus breach: india denies whatsapp hack amid outragewhy india wants to track whatsapp messages "data localisation completely goes against the whole concept of the internet which is a global network," he added. reports have quoted government officials as saying that they wanted user data stored locally as the pegasus breach "compromised national security". hackers were able to install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. targets received video or voice call requests from an unknown number - which even if ignored, allowed the spyware, known as pegasus, to be installed on the device.  this allowed users to remotely access everything on the phone, including text messages and location. whatsapp fixed the vulnerability as soon as it was discovered and informed affected users. it also filed a lawsuit against israeli firm nso group, alleging it was behind the cyber-attacks that infected devices in april and may. nso group, which makes software for surveillance, says it only works with government agencies and strongly denied responsibility for the attacks. activists and politicians pointed fingers at the state after whatsapp revealed indian journalists and activists were among those targeted. the government has denied the claims. however, it has also repeatedly refused to discuss the issue in parliament.  it refused to answer questions about who had authorised the attacks and instead cited a controversial law that specified the right of agencies to monitor and decrypt information in national security interest. it also tried to stop a parliamentary committee on cyber security from discussing the matter, saying it did not fall under the purview of the panel. amy says it all started when her husband seemed to know intimate details about her friends. "he would drop snippets into conversations, such as knowing about sarah's baby. really private things that he shouldn't have known about. if i asked how he knew these things, he'd say i'd told him and accuse me of losing it," she says. amy - not her real name - also began to wonder how he seemed to know where she was all the time. "sometimes he would say he saw me at a cafe where i was meeting my friends and say he was just passing by chance. i started to question everything and trust no-one, even my friends," she says. for months, these incidents built up, turning an abusive marriage into a nightmare that came to a chilling conclusion after a halloween family trip. "we'd been to visit a pumpkin patch and were having a rare good weekend, which basically means my husband hadn't taken anything out on me. our six-year-old son was playing on the floor and was so happy," amy says. "my husband passed me his phone to show me a picture he'd taken at the farm and in that split-second i saw an alert pop up on his screen. it read, 'daily report on amy's mac is ready to view.' "i felt this chill go through me and i stopped breathing for a minute. i had to excuse myself and pretended i needed the bathroom. i had to be there for my son and pretend that i hadn't seen anything. "the first moment i could, i went to the library to use the computer and look up the spyware he'd used. that's when everything made sense after months of thinking i was going crazy." stalkerware - also known as spouseware - are powerful surveillance software programs typically sold openly online. on a device, all messages can be read, screen activity recorded, gps locations tracked and cameras used to spy on what an individual is doing. according to cyber-security company kaspersky, the number of people who have discovered such software on their devices has risen by at least 35% in the past year. kaspersky researchers say their protection technologies have detected stalkerware on 37,532 devices so far this year.  and principal security researcher david emm says this is the "tip of a very large iceberg". "most people will routinely protect a laptop or desktop, not that many people actually protect a mobile device," he says. "this information is coming back from installations of our product on [smartphones]... so this figure doesn't even go close to what the total would be." webwise: an introduction to spywarethe apps that let parents 'spy' on their kidsspyware use in domestic violence 'escalating' kaspersky's findings indicate russia is the country with the highest levels of stalkerware activity. india, brazil, the united states and germany complete the top five, with the uk in eighth place with 730 detections. another security company says there are practical steps people can take if they suspect they are already being spied on. "it's always advisable to check which apps are on your phone and conduct a virus scan where necessary and if there are any apps on your device that you do not recognise it is worth searching online for reviews and deleting them," says jake moore, from eset. "as a general rule, if you aren't using an app, delete it." once amy realised her computer had been compromised, she developed a severe mistrust of technology, which she is only just overcoming. charities say this is a common psychological response to such a trauma.  jessica was another victim of stalkerware. her ex-husband routinely spied on her through her phone's microphone and would play mind games by repeating specific phrases she and her friends had used in private conversations. it's been years since she escaped the relationship but she still leaves her phone locked in the car when seeing friends. gemma toynton, from domestic abuse charity safer places, says she see this long-term effect a lot in her cases.  "it reduces someone's trust," she says. "it makes them see a phone or laptop as a weapon, because that's what it's been used for. "technology has become, in their minds like a net around them and a lot of people do withdraw from using the internet. "it really does impact your whole life. the fact that this stalkerware is on the rise is a real concern." amy, who is from the us, is now divorced and lives many miles away from her ex-husband.  she has a restraining order preventing him from direct contact with her and he is legally allowed to communicate logistics about their son's care via written letter only. i tested out one of the most popular consumer products, which costs £140 for three months of surveillance. i bought it online and installed it on to my work phone. it took me about an hour and i used the 24-hour live support offered by the company when i encountered any problems. spyware companies advertise their services as "employee monitoring" or "parental control" products.  in many countries, including the uk, using the spyware on a spouse without their permission is illegal, so many of the companies' websites are littered with disclaimers advising against this. however, some of the same websites link to articles, seemingly written by associates, recommending the software as a spy tool for "cheatings wives and husbands".  in a live chat with the company whose product i was testing, i directly told them: "i want to install this on my wife's phone, will it be secret?"  the customer service-representative responded: "the application will start to work in stealth mode right after installation. i'll be happy to help." i also downloaded five of the top cyber-security products on to the infected mobile and carried out a free scan.  all of them gave alerts for "potentially harmful software".  the crown prosecution service says there aren't specific laws related to the use of stalkerware but any criminal activity like this can be prosecuted by a number of means including the protection from harassment act 1997. amy says more should be done to legislate against the use of these technologies.  "they need to stop hiding behind plausible deniability," she says.  "there is a wink that's given when they send this little disclaimer that says, 'we don't approve of you spying on wives.' they know what their customers are doing though. this software causes real harm." a scam call centre that targeted thousands of british victims has been raided by the indian police, following a bbc investigation. panorama broadcast hacked footage from inside the call centre which showed how staff charged people hundreds of pounds to fix non-existent computer problems. the owner of the call centre, amit chauhan, denied it was a scam but declined to answer detailed questions. mr chauhan is now in custody after police raided the call centre. it was located in the gurugram suburb of delhi, and mr chauhan is due to appear in court on thursday. the programme had also obtained the recordings of 70,000 calls where victims were being ripped off in the uk, america and australia. indian police are appealing for british residents who paid money to the call centre to contact them by email at shocybergrg.pol-hry@gov.in watch on iplayer: spying on the scammers perry adams was one of those who lost money after a bogus warning appeared on his computer, saying it had been infected with pornographic spyware. he said he will be contacting the indian police with his evidence. "i think that it's superb the work that panorama has done on behalf of the victims, to catch someone who thought they were untouchable. there's nothing to stop him opening up somewhere else, so i'll be interested to see what happens in court," he said. hundreds of thousands of people are employed in legitimate call centres in india, but there are also dozens of call centres running scams. indian police say it is a difficult crime to prosecute because all of the victims are overseas, and they need evidence from victims in order to bring charges. panorama obtained its evidence from an online vigilante who goes by the name of jim browning. he had hacked into the call centre's computer system and taken control of the cctv cameras in the building. messaging service whatsapp will no longer work on millions of smartphones from 1 february. android and iphone devices which only support outdated operating systems will no longer be able to run the facebook-owned app.  whatsapp said the move was necessary in order to protect the security of its users.  smartphones using android 2.3.7 and older, and iphone ios 8 or older, are those affected by the update.  the operating systems that whatsapp is dropping support for are legacy operating systems, which are no longer updated or installed on new devices. most users will simply be able to update their operating systems in order to continue using the messaging service.  whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by spywarefacebook's sir nick clegg criticised over whatsapp security however, certain devices, such as the iphone 4, which only supports ios 7, will no longer be compatible with the app.  "whatsapp clearly had no option but to ensure its service remains secure, however it faces the difficult side-effect that the app is no longer compatible with older smartphones," said ccs insight analyst ben wood.  "this is likely to disproportionally impact the long-tail of its users, particularly in growth markets where there is a high proportion of older devices." whatsapp, which was one of the most-downloaded apps of the decade, first warned users that these changes would happen back in 2017.  "this was a tough decision for us to make, but the right one in order to give people better ways to keep in touch with friends, family, and loved ones using whatsapp," said a spokesperson for the company.  it is the latest in a series of moves after the messaging app withdrew support for numerous devices in 2016, and then from all windows phones on 31 december, 2019. indian activists and politicians are pointing fingers at the state after whatsapp revealed indian journalists and activists were among those targeted with spyware on its platform.  whatsapp has filed a lawsuit against israeli firm nso group, alleging it was behind the cyber-attacks that infected devices in april and may. nso group, which makes software for surveillance, says it only works with government agencies. the government has denied the claims.  "these attempts to malign the government of india for the reported breach are completely misleading," a government statement read, adding that it would take "strict action" against those responsible for the attack. india has also asked whatsapp for a detailed explanation, information and technology minister ravi shankar prasad said in a statement on twitter.  nso group has also denied the allegations against them. "in the strongest possible terms, we dispute the allegations and vigorously fight them," nso group said in a statement to the bbc. "the sole purpose of nso is to provide technology to licensed government intelligence and law enforcement agencies to help them fight terrorism and serious crime," it added.  hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices by using a major vulnerability in the messaging app. targets received video or voice call requests from an unknown number - which even if ignored, allowed the spyware, known as pegasus, to be installed on the device. this allowed users to remotely access everything on the phone, including text messages and location. whatsapp has not disclosed the number of indians targeted.  "while i cannot reveal their identities and the exact number, i can say that it is not an insignificant number," whatsapp spokesperson carl woog told the indian express newspaper. indian news site scroll says it has confirmed that at least 17 individuals, including activists, scholars and journalists, were affected by the breach.  "the profile of the private indian citizens targeted in this case suggests the involvement of state agencies in india," technology writer prasanto k roy told the bbc. "these people are all activists, journalists and lawyers who work with or represent tribal people and dalits (formerly untouchables) in sensitive areas where people have clashed with the state." mr roy added that the list of people targeted so far is very specific. "i can't think of a single foreign government, not even pakistan, who would be interested in these particular private citizens." lawyer nihalsing rathod, who has defended human rights activists arrested after caste-based violence broke out in the western state of maharashtra in august 2018, told bbc marathi that his phone had been targeted.  the arrests of the activists had been sharply criticised by many as a "witch hunt" against those who challenged the governing bharatiya janata party (bjp). another of those targeted  is bela bhatia, a writer and human rights lawyer who has alleged constant harassment by police in the volatile central state of chhattisgarh.  with 400 million users, india is the biggest market for the facebook-owned company. however, it is not the first time that the messaging platform has found itself in trouble with local authorities.  a spate of lynchings driven by rumours of child kidnappings circulating on whatsapp prompted indian authorities to demand that the company do something to curb the spread of misinformation on its platform.  whatsapp: indians among those 'targeted' by spywarewhy india wants to track whatsapp messageswhatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attack whatsapp then took several steps, including advertising in newspapers and limiting the number of forwards a single user could send to five. it also marked messages that had been forwarded with a label.  since then, the government has gone a step further by saying that it would introduce new rules in january 2020 that would allow it to monitor, intercept and trace social media messages. in response, whatsapp has said this would not be possible, "given the end-to-end encryption" the app uses.  soon after it discovered the cyber-attacks in may, the company rolled out a fix, adding "new protections" to their systems and issuing updates. cyber-experts at the university of toronto's citizen lab helped whatsapp identify more than 100 cases of "abusive targeting of human rights defenders and journalists in at least 20 countries across the globe, ranging from africa, asia, europe, the middle east, and north america". its decision to sue nso group is the first time an encrypted messaging provider has taken legal action of this kind whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are encrypted end-to-end. this means they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device. years ago, when indian artist indu harikumar fell in love, she thought it was the perfect romance. but within months, the live-in relationship began to unravel - there were frequent fights, mostly over what she was posting on the internet. "i had no idea what would trigger him. whenever i would share a photo or a selfie on social media, he would get upset about who's liking my photo, who's commenting on it," ms harikumar told the bbc.  since she didn't want to make him angry, she trimmed her friends' list, unfriended her exes and restricted access to male friends.  "even when he was not present, i was thinking for him - before putting a post, i was trying to anticipate how he would react? soon, i was putting the same restrictions on my life offline too. i was walking on eggshells."  but that didn't help - he still found things to get angry about. "one day, he got upset by a random tweet that someone had put out saying 'i'll do anything for a person with a nose stud'. a friend with a sizeable number of followers tagged me and commented, 'then you should look at indu.' "i had not seen the tweet, but my partner sent me a message saying 'you have pimps in high places'," she says, adding that it was not the only abuse she'd faced online. ms harikumar's latest crowd-sourced instagram art project - lovesexandtech - draws from her own personal experiences and those of other women of "online abuse". it's supported by take back the tech, a global campaign to make digital space safer for women. online abuse is pervasive globally and a lot of it is directed at women. they are trolled for their politics or opinions, many often complain of receiving threats of rapes and sexual assault. in 2017, amnesty international polled 4,000 women from eight countries and found that 76% of women who were abused on social media restricted their use - 32% said they had stopped expressing opinions on some issues. in india too, the report said, that increasing access to the internet had resulted in more women facing online abuse for participating in public life and sharing their opinions on social media platforms.  campaigners say online abuse has the power to "belittle, demean, intimidate and eventually silence women".  but the nameless, faceless trolls are one thing, a much bigger problem is how does one deal with abuse from their loved ones?  the artist painting women's breast storiesgaslighting: the 'perfect' romance that became a nightmareindia 'fails' victims of abuse  that is what lovesexandtech is documenting - how gender-based violence in intimate relationships leads to a shrinkage of the space women occupy online. ms harikumar says when she first put out a post in august asking women to share their stories about "restrictions, surveillance and control placed by intimate partners", she didn't think she would get many responses. she initially called her project love, sex and violence but then "i realised that in india, a lot of violations are not even considered violence, especially the emotional ones". so, she spelt it out in greater details, explaining that "this could be anything from the threat to make a chat you shared with them public or with friends, threatening to leak your nude photos or leaking them, causing you emotional, physical or sexual harm for talking to someone online or posting something that they don't approve of, or adding spyware to your devices". within days, ms harikumar says, lots of women responded with their stories of having faced "gaslighting, control, slut-shaming, emotional violence and manipulation".  "i didn't think i'd get such a lot of stories," she says, adding that many women said they had suppressed their trauma for long and found that sharing their stories was "cathartic". at the same time, they wanted their stories to serve as a warning to others who found themselves in a similar situation. one woman, who wrote in saying she was "very conscious of her body", spoke about her shock on finding out that her lover had shared her nude photo online without her consent. "three weeks after he'd shared it, he showed it to me saying 'hope you take it in the right spirit'. he was pleased that so many men said they desired me sexually.  "he said, 'these men can only desire you, but i alone can have you.' i called him a pervert. he said he did it because he wanted me to feel good about my body. but i felt so violated." another wrote in saying she stopped posting selfies because every time she posted one, her boyfriend would berate her, telling her it was her way of seeking validation. yet another said her partner badgered her until she shared her email password with him saying "you're hiding something or you're talking to other men". and another woman said her partner used her thumb to unlock her phone as she slept and later shamed her over a video she had watched online. almost all the women, ms harikumar says, narrated experiences similar to her own - that in an attempt to make their relationship work, they'd stopped talking to their exes, deleted them from their friends' list, and stopped posting selfies. they had also removed photos showing cleavage, or where they were smoking or drinking. "they were deleting their history in an attempt to appear good. most women take refuge in the 'good girl narrative'. it's universal - it keeps them safe. we are told women can only be of two kinds - mother mary or a slut.  "so, we think if we are good, things will pan out okay. we often blame ourselves when things go wrong." but what is heartening, she says, is that the women who "sent in their stories said they'd realised that they were being abused and stood up to their abusers". one woman wrote in about how she stood up to her ex-boyfriend when he threatened to send her photos to her dad. "i'll tell him your daughter is a slut," he said.  another said her ex-boyfriend threatened to share her nudes online when she broke up with him. he backed down when she threatened to call the police on him. "the worst thing is if you don't stand up to your abuser, then more than feeling hatred for them, you feel anger towards yourself. you blame yourself for not standing up for yourself," ms harikumar says. through lovesexandtech, she says, she is trying to document stories of women acknowledging the abuse, standing up to their abusers, and taking back control of technology to reclaim the virtual space that is rightfully theirs. "historic"; "a breakthrough"; "a game-changer"; "a betrayal": there is no shortage of epithets for this month's sudden announcement - by president trump - that the united arab emirates (uae) is to fully normalise its relations with israel.  after egypt's peace treaty with israel in 1979, followed by jordan's in 1994, this makes the uae only the third arab country to normalise relations. it is the first of the six arab gulf states to do so. oman. bahrain and possibly morocco are widely expected to follow. discreet contacts between the uae and israel had been under way for years but still, the details and timing of this normalisation deal were kept secret right up to the last minute. there were no consultations between the uae foreign ministry in abu dhabi and its arab neighbours. almost everyone was taken by surprise, most of all the palestinians, who called it "a stab in the back" since they have yet to come close to getting a state of their own or ending israeli occupation.  "for the palestinians, there is zero upside here," comments emile hokayem from the london-based international institute for strategic studies. for the uae's de facto ruler crown prince sheikh mohammed bin zayed (known as mbz), this deal is something of a gamble but one with the odds heavily in his favour.  the risk is it could make the uae leadership highly unpopular in the wider arab world where some social media postings have been calling it "a sell-out". were the israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu to renege on his promise to temporarily shelve annexation of parts of the west bank then that would be extremely embarrassing for the emiratis and possibly see the whole deal unravel.  but such a move would also draw disapproval from the white house and besides, popular street protests are not usually tolerated in the gulf.  "in the short term, the pitfalls for the uae are very limited," says mr hokayem. "this deal is not going to affect the uae regime's stability. it reflects the changing geopolitics of the region and it buys the uae a lot of goodwill in the us, where its image has been tarnished by its involvement in the yemen war." israel and uae strike historic peace dealwhat does trump’s mid-east plan say on key issues?explainer: israel, annexation and the west bank so what is behind this deal and what's in it for this relatively young gulf nation and former british protectorate that only became a sovereign nation in 1971? in short, it is two things - strategic advantage and technology.  the uae, along with bahrain and saudi arabia, has a deep mistrust, even a fear, of its giant, heavily-armed neighbour across the water: iran.  gulf arab leaders look at the map of the region and they note how, despite crippling sanctions, iran's strategic presence has advanced rapidly across the middle east ever since the bulwark of saddam hussein's regime was removed in iraq.  where once iran was largely confined to its national borders, today it has proxy militias in iraq, syria, lebanon and yemen. israel shares this concern, especially when it comes to iran's secretive nuclear programme.  then there is what is known as "islamism" or "political islam", a transnational concept often embodied by the muslim brotherhood and one which certain gulf arab rulers view as an existential threat to their dynastic monarchies. no-one dislikes the muslim brotherhood more fervently than the uae crown prince and this has led to the uae backing anti-muslim brotherhood factions as far away as libya while seeing its interests clash increasingly with those of turkey's islamist government.  in practice, this has led to the formation of an unofficial partnership of conservative middle eastern governments, a de facto club to which israel, with its formidable intelligence capabilities, is now being admitted as an associate member. and there is technology, including biotech, healthcare, defence and cyber surveillance. here, the uae already has form, having purchased israeli-manufactured spyware some years ago to keep an eye on its own citizens. the uae has deep pockets - it has vast oil reserves and a per capita gdp of nearly $40,000 (£30,000). it also has ambitions globally, and beyond, having just become the first arab country to send a mission to mars.  israel is by far the most technologically advanced country in the middle east, with cutting-edge inventions. if this alliance works out it could propel the uae to a new level of prosperity and international prestige, while safeguarding future jobs for its citizens.  israel's overtures to the gulf go back some way. in 1995, shortly before israel's prime minister yitzhak rabin was assassinated by a jewish extremist, he sent his foreign minister shimon peres on an official visit to oman and qatar. low-key israeli trade offices then opened up in both countries' capitals. i remember calling up their office in muscat for a comment - the israeli representative inadvertently answered the phone with the hebrew greeting "shalom" before quickly changing it to the arabic "salaamu aleikum".  the trade initiative withered away after mr netanyahu became prime minister, israel intervened in lebanon and the second palestinian intifada erupted. but more recently quiet diplomacy between israel and the gulf states has accelerated as a fear of iranian expansionism has become the prime preoccupation. bahrain, oman and qatar may well follow the uae if this month's announcement passes without major incident. saudi arabia may take longer. but back in 2002 it was the saudis who launched the crown prince abdullah peace plan at the beirut arab summit, offering israel full recognition in exchange for a return to its pre-1967 borders. the deal briefly put israeli pm ariel sharon on the spot but days later hamas carried out bombings and all talks were off. today the middle east is a very different place and what was then unthinkable is now a reality.  "guess what were the most searched-for words online in the uae immediately after the deal was announced?" said an emirati official. "it was 'hotels in israel'. a lot of people can't wait to visit!" adobe has patched a new flash security flaw that was being used by attackers to install spying tools on victims' computers. the security bug was delivered using malicious flash files embedded in microsoft word documents, sent as an email attachment to targets.  when the document was opened, the finspy malware would secretly install itself. the vulnerability was discovered by russian security firm kaspersky lab. the flaw was discovered by kaspersky lab researchers on 10 october. they found that the attacker - thought to be a group called blackoasis - was targeting the governments of various countries who are members of the united nations, as well as oil and gas companies in several regions. in the uk, activists and several non-governmental organisations (ngos) were targeted by the attackers, but not government agencies.  kaspersky contacted adobe on the same day it discovered the exploit, and adobe published the patch on monday 16 october.  finspy is a surveillance software product developed by anglo-german firm gamma international. it is a legal spying tool that is used by law enforcement agencies around the world for lawful surveillance during criminal and anti-terror investigations.  "what is unusual about blackoasis is that they are using legal surveillance tools to hit other nation states," costin raiu, the director of kaspersky's global research & analysis team told the bbc. "this is unusual because everybody was using these tools for lawful surveillance in their own countries." due to the numerous security issues relating to adobe flash, the software is now gradually being phased out. however, some older websites still use it, so web browsers now come with protections to prevent attackers from exploiting flash to sneakily install malware on consumers' computers. this has proved effective in curtailing flash exploits in the web browser, so to make the attack work, blackoasis appeared to have embedded a flash file in a microsoft word document, because this stops the typical protections from working. mr raiu thinks that microsoft should consider blocking certain types of files from launching when word documents are opened. he recommended that consumers install the patch for flash even if they don't think they are using it on their computers, because it might still be installed.  "the most worrying thing in this story is that tools produced by these companies specialising in lawful surveillance are being used to fuel cross-country espionage and contribute to the increasing climate of world cyber war," said mr raiu. "the creator of the tool is a uk company, and then it is used to spy on british targets. i just find the whole concept a bit worrying." india's ban on 59 chinese apps, including the wildly popular tiktok and wechat platforms, has left millions of users surprised and disappointed. the government in delhi said the apps were "prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of india, defence of india, security of state and public order". tiktok denied sharing any data with the chinese government. beijing said it was "strongly concerned" about the ban.  experts describe the ban as a political move amid rising bilateral tensions. tiktok star faces uncertain future after app ban anti-china sentiment has been high in india since the clashes earlier this month at the disputed border between the two nuclear-armed neighbours left 20 indian troops dead.  china gave no details on whether there were any chinese casualties. the fighting occurred in the himalayan region of ladakh, where both countries have increased deployment close to the disputed border.  calls to boycott chinese goods soon emerged, and the government issued directives to cancel or limit chinese contracts with public sector companies.  but the ban on the apps took many by surprise. the list includes the microblogging platform weibo, the strategy game clash of kings, alibaba's uc browser, and e-commerce apps club factory and shein. the app makers have said they are in talks with the indian government, while beijing has asked india to reconsider its decision. "we want to stress that chinese government always asks chinese businesses to abide by international and local laws-regulations. indian government has a responsibility to uphold the legal rights of international investors including chinese ones," ani news agency quotes chinese foreign ministry spokesperson zhao lijian as saying. india's ministry of information technology has said the ban was the result of "many complaints from various sources" about apps that were "stealing and surreptitiously transmitting users' data in an unauthorised manner". many of the chinese apps have been linked to controversies over data privacy, and have been accused of sharing sensitive information with the chinese government. us senators have even called for an investigation into tiktok, which fiercely rejects such claims. the indian government said in its statement that, "the compilation of these data, its mining and profiling by elements hostile to national security and defence of india, which ultimately impinges upon the sovereignty and integrity of india, is a matter of very deep and immediate concern which requires emergency measures". this isn't the first time chinese apps have been banned in india. in 2017, alibaba's uc browser came under scrutiny for allegedly leaking mobile data of indian users. and that year, india's defence ministry asked all armed personnel and officers to uninstall 42 chinese apps it classified as "spyware", according to media reports.  some, however, believe that the timing of the ban - amid escalating tensions - is not coincidental, but rather a response to the events at the border. "this is a purely political move," nikhil pahwa, the editor of medianama, a media watchdog, told the bbc. "i don't think it will affect the apps - maybe the number of the users [will drop] but it will only have a minor impact on [their] revenue," mr pahwa said. the ban is already affecting millions of users across india, who are unable to use the blacklisted apps. "as china has shown, governments can indeed block apps - not just remove them from the app stores, which has already happened in india, so you can't install them afresh or upgrade an existing install," says tech policy expert prasanto k roy.  he adds that although there are ways to get around the ban, it will "effectively kill" popular apps. "if over 95% of 100 million users exit, that kills the 'network effect' and most of the content, and hence an app like tiktok is no longer attractive." india is tiktok's biggest foreign market, with an estimated 120 million active users. tiktok allows users to publish and share short videos.  in the years since it has launched in india, the app has become a platform for indians of all ages and classes - from police constables to housewives - who  dance, sing and perform for their followers. the app has turned many ordinary indians into social media stars.   and mr roy says the ban will hurt all indians who were making money and business connections through these apps. "the thousands of tiktok influencers who were making a living off the platform and the many indian traders and businessmen who need to connect to people in china and do that over wechat —this cuts them off." he agrees that there is cause for concern around how the apps treat user data, but he says the response should be in the form of a privacy law, which india doesn't have.  "it's a soft strike at the chinese, payback for the claimed border violations and recent violent conflict," he adds. tiktok's parent company, bytedance, told the bbc, it is "committed to working with the [indian] government to demonstrate our dedication to user security and our commitment to the country overall. nikhil gandhi, tiktok's india head, said on twitter that the company had been invited to meet "concerned government stakeholders for an opportunity to respond and submit clarifications." other app makers are yet to respond to the ban. experts say that most of these firms will try to lobby policy makers but they are not likely to be allowed as long as tensions continue at the border and anti-china sentiments remain high in the country.  hackers were able to remotely install surveillance software on phones and other devices using a major vulnerability in messaging app whatsapp, it has been confirmed. whatsapp, which is owned by facebook, said the attack targeted a "select number" of users and was orchestrated by "an advanced cyber-actor".  a fix was rolled out on friday.  on monday, whatsapp urged all of its 1.5 billion users to update their apps as an added precaution.  the surveillance software involved was developed by israeli firm nso group, according to a report in the financial times.  why the whatsapp spies may have eyes on iran facebook first discovered the flaw in whatsapp earlier in may. whatsapp promotes itself as a "secure" communications app because messages are end-to-end encrypted, meaning they should only be displayed in a legible form on the sender or recipient's device.  however, the surveillance software would have let an attacker read the messages on the target's device. some users of the app have questioned why the app store notes associated with the latest update are not explicit about the fix. "journalists, lawyers, activists and human rights defenders" are most likely to have been targeted, said ahmed zidan from the non-profit committee to protect journalists. android open the google play storetap the menu at the top left of the screentap my apps & gamesif whatsapp has recently been updated, it will appear in the list of apps with a button that says openif whatsapp has not been automatically updated, the button will say update. tap update to install the new versionthe latest version of whatsapp on android is 2.19.134 ios open the app storeat the bottom of the screen, tap updatesif whatsapp has recently been updated, it will appear in the list of apps with a button that says openif whatsapp has not been automatically updated, the button will say update. tap update to install the new versionthe latest version of whatsapp on ios is 2.19.51 it involved attackers using whatsapp's voice calling function to ring a target's device.  even if the call was not picked up, the surveillance software could be installed. according to the ft report, the call would often disappear from the device's call log.  whatsapp told the bbc its security team was the first to identify the flaw. it shared that information with human rights groups, selected security vendors and the us department of justice earlier this month.  "the attack has all the hallmarks of a private company reportedly that works with governments to deliver spyware that takes over the functions of mobile phone operating systems,” the company said on monday in a briefing document note for journalists.  what is encryption?what we know about the secretive nso group the firm also published an advisory to security specialists, in which it described the flaw as: "a buffer overflow vulnerability in whatsapp voip [voice over internet protocol] stack allowed remote code execution via specially crafted series of srtcp [secure real-time transport protocol] packets sent to a target phone number.”  prof alan woodward from the university of surrey said it was a "pretty old-fashioned" method of attack. "a buffer overflow is where a program runs into memory it should not have access to.  it overflows the memory it should have and hence has access to memory in which malicious code can potentially be run," he explained. "if you are able to pass some code through the app, you can run your own code in that area. "in voip there is an initial process that dials up and establishes the call, and the flaw was in that bit. consequently you did not need to answer the call for the attack to work." the nso group is an israeli company that has been referred to in the past as a "cyber-arms dealer".  while some cyber-security companies report the flaws they find so that they can be fixed, others keep problems to themselves so they can be exploited or sold to law enforcement.  the nso group is part-owned by the london-based private equity firm novalpina capital, which acquired a stake in february. nso's flagship software, pegasus, has the ability to collect intimate data from a target device, including capturing data through the microphone and camera, and gathering location data.  in a statement, the group said: "nso's technology is licensed to authorised government agencies for the sole purpose of fighting crime and terror.  on the frontline of india's whatsapp fake news warwhatsapp sets new rules after mob killings "the company does not operate the system, and after a rigorous licensing and vetting process, intelligence and law enforcement determine how to use the technology to support their public safety missions. we investigate any credible allegations of misuse and if necessary, we take action, including shutting down the system.  "under no circumstances would nso be involved in the operating or identifying of targets of its technology, which is solely operated by intelligence and law enforcement agencies. nso would not or could not use its technology in its own right to target any person or organisation." whatsapp said it was too early to know how many users had been affected by the vulnerability, although it added that suspected attacks were highly-targeted.   according to the new york times, one of the people targeted was a london-based lawyer involved in a lawsuit against the nso group. amnesty international, which said it had been targeted by tools created by the nso group in the past, said this attack was one human rights groups had long feared was possible. "they're able to infect your phone without you actually taking an action," said danna ingleton, deputy programme director for amnesty tech. she said there was mounting evidence that the tools were being used by regimes to keep prominent activists and journalists under surveillance. "there needs to be some accountability for this, it can't just continue to be a wild west, secretive industry." on tuesday, a tel aviv court will hear a petition led by amnesty international that calls for israel's ministry of defence to revoke the nso group's licence to export its products. how many people were targeted? whatsapp says it is too early in its investigation to say how many people were targeted, or how long the flaw was present in the appdoes updating whatsapp remove the spyware? while the update fixes the flaw that let this attack take place, whatsapp has not said whether the update removes any spyware that has already infected a compromised devicewhat could the spyware do? whatsapp has not said whether the attack could extend beyond the confines of whatsapp, reaching further into a device and accessing emails, photos and more "using an app as an attack route is limited on ios as they run apps in very tightly controlled sandboxes," said prof woodward. "we're all assuming that the attack was just a corruption of whatsapp but analysis is still ongoing. "the nightmare scenario would be if you could get something much more capable onto the device without the user having to do anything," he said. the bbc has asked whatsapp for clarification.  _______ follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc do you have more information about this or any other technology story? you can reach dave directly and securely through encrypted messaging app signal on: +1 (628) 400-7370 mexican president enrique peña nieto has strongly denied his government spied on prominent journalists and activists by hacking their phones. he said there was "nothing more false" than to suggest his government was behind the installation of spyware. several alleged victims have filed a criminal complaint following reports that the israeli-made spyware had been found on their mobile phones. mexican prosecutors have opened an investigation. a report in the new york times said lawyers, journalists and activists investigating corruption and human rights abuses in mexico were targeted with spyware that can infiltrate smartphones and monitor calls, texts and other communications. the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. an internet watchdog at the university of toronto said it had found more than 76 fake messages sent to mexican journalists and lawyers which contained links to the nso group's spyware.  speaking at an event in the state of jalisco, mr peña nieto said those accusing his administration had to produce more evidence. "this government categorically rejects any type of intervention in the private life of any citizen," he said. "none of the people who feel aggrieved can affirm, demonstrate or show evidence that their life has been affected by these supposed interventions and by this alleged espionage." on wednesday, the mexican attorney general's office said prosecutors would investigate the origin of the fake messages as well as the supplier of the spyware. a link is usually sent in a message to a smartphone. if the person taps on it, the spyware is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - is hackedvery little is known about nso group, the secretive israel-based company behind pegasus, but security researchers have called it a cyber arms dealer. the company was thought to be worth $1bn (£780m) in 2015the company has acknowledged that it sells tools to governments but has given very little details about who its customers are. it has said, however, that it has no control over how its tools are used and for what purpose read more here miguel agustín pro juárez centre: one of the most respected human rights groups in mexico, it has looked into the disappearance and suspected massacre of 43 students in 2014 and other high profile cases, including a military raid that left 22 dead in 2014. its executive director and two other senior executives allegedly received infected messagesaristegui noticias: award-winning journalist carmen aristegui, who also hosts a daily programme on cnn en español, has reported on suspected cases of corruption and conflict of interest, including a scandal involving the wife of president enrique peña nieto acquiring a $7m (£5.5m) house from a government contractor. two members of her investigative team and her under-age son allegedly received some 50 messagescarlos loret de mola: a popular journalist at leading tv network televisa, he allegedly received several messages containing the softwaremexican institute for competitiveness (imco): it has led efforts for anti-corruption legislation. two senior members were allegedly targeted. the bbc has uncovered new details about one of the men accused of murdering jamal khashoggi, a prominent saudi journalist who was critical of his country's government. turkish media identified maher abdulaziz mutreb as being part of a 15-member team of suspected saudi agents who flew into and out of istanbul on the day of mr khashoggi's disappearance from the city's saudi consulate on 2 october. he is said to have spent two years working in london, with a source describing him as a colonel in saudi intelligence to us news network cnn. and now bbc arabic can reveal he was trained how to use offensive spyware technology on behalf of the saudi state. what we know about saudi journalist's disappearancewho's who in alleged saudi 'hit squad'saudi arabia profile  the source, who spoke to the bbc on condition of anonymity, has visually confirmed his identity from pictures circulated in the media in the days since mr khashoggi's disappearance. according to him, mr mutreb was introduced as "an intelligence security operative". the spyware trainers, however, nicknamed him "dark face". "because he looked always grumpy, like he was on the sad side… he was very silent," the source added. saudi arabia denies any knowledge of what happened to mr khashoggi, insisting he left the consulate soon after getting routine paperwork. the european surveillance expert described how mr mutreb spent two weeks on a course with him in 2011, learning how to use the technology his company was providing the saudi government so that it could carry out targeted attacks on the phones and computers of its own citizens.  "the training involved things like infecting a computer from potential targets of interest for intelligence and extracting information, so digital evidence, information about this person of interest. "this information might have been basically everything from [their] gps position, conversation, microphone audio around the device itself, camera pictures, files on disk, emails, contacts, everything that was on the device itself." during the training, which was in a military compound in the suburbs of riyadh, the surveillance expert says mr mutreb "used to come and go" and "almost didn't speak at all". "he wasn't one of the guys who was particularly skilled on the technical side," the spyware trainer explained.  "the group was split between those doing physical intelligence… so cameras, microphones etc, and another group of people that were doing digital surveillance… i believe that this guy was more on the physical surveillance than the digital surveillance." the tools he was trained in, the source said, were similar to other tools which, according to citizenlab and amnesty international, were recently used against several of mr khashoggi's friends. mr mutreb is believed to have spent two years working at the saudi embassy in london. a document published by the british government in 2007 listed a man with that name as first secretary. however, he has also been named as a saudi intelligence officer by several individuals, and some leaked documents. cnn spoke to a saudi source in london who said he knew mr mutreb, describing him as a colonel in saudi intelligence, while the popular arabic app menom3ay - which enables users to see the names people have linked to phone numbers - lists a man with that name as a colonel in the royal court. on october 12 wikileaks tweeted the khashoggi files, which included emails with the name of mutreb and five other men who were supposed to have attended a course in italy in 2011, run by an italian company called hacking team. the emails were part of a dump of 400gb of data first released by wikileaks in july 2015, which hacking team say was stolen from their internal network.  the emails also included conversations that suggested the intelligence agencies hacking team worked with used it to spy on activists and journalists.  the emails included a list of countries they sold their tools to, including egypt, russia, saudi arabia and sudan. hacking team also sells surveillance software, some of which has offensive capabilities.  these are strange times. germany, perhaps the most privacy conscious nation on earth, is considering a mobile phone app that would trace the contacts of anyone infected with covid-19.  earlier this week the british prime minister shared a picture of an online cabinet meeting, complete with the zoom meeting id and the usernames of ministers. and millions of us are sharing views of our kitchens over this and other video-conferencing apps, without apparently being too concerned about poor privacy controls. meanwhile, the national health service in england has sent out a document that appears to mark a shift in its policy on patient data, giving staff more latitude to share information relating to the coronavirus. in particular, it mentions the use of data to understand trends in the spread and impact of the virus and "and the management of patients with or at risk of covid-19 including: locating, contacting, screening, flagging and monitoring such patients".  in other words, hospital staff and gps, who until now may have been cautious almost to the point of paranoia about data protection, can chill out a little.  stream or download the latest tech tent podcastlisten live every friday at 14:00 gmt on the bbc world service as someone who has previously been asked by my optician to take pictures on my phone of an eye scan and take them to a hospital doctor because they were not permitted to email them, the new policy seems sensible. so are we becoming more relaxed about privacy because of the pandemic, or are we in danger of allowing governments and corporations to trample over our rights using the excuse of the emergency? the former portuguese europe minister bruno macaes, now a writer and commentator, made it clear where he stands in this startling tweet: the idea that any concern about privacy in the battle against the virus is not only irrelevant but could prove fatal is at one extreme of this argument.  at the other are some privacy campaigners, who appear to think that any form of monitoring people with the virus risks the creation of a surveillance state. we can see this battle playing out in the debate over the contact-tracing apps now being considered by a number of european countries, including the uk.  a press conference with a consortium of european scientists aiding their development began with a clear declaration about putting privacy at their core. hans-christian boos, an ai entrepreneur and adviser to chancellor merkel, is one of the initiative's leaders. he said one of the motivating factors was to address the question: "can we really build proximity-tracing while preserving privacy completely?"  it is possible, they concluded, if the system is built round the use of bluetooth signals and anonymous ids. singapore's tracetogether, which already does this, is being cited as a good example. but some countries are taking a less cautious approach.  russia's social monitoring app for citizens who have tested positive for covid-19, will request access to calls, location, camera, storage, network information and other data to check they do not leave their home while contagious. taiwan has been using network data to monitor citizens in quarantine, in one case resulting in a man getting a visit from the police 45 minutes after his phone went flat. and perhaps the most extreme option is a software tool being touted by the israeli spyware firm nso group. it envisages governments telling mobile phone operators to hand over all their data on the movements of every subscriber.  when i asked an nhs official whether such an approach would be feasible here, i could almost hear him turn white over the phone.  a simple guide:  how do i protect myself?avoiding contact: the rules on self-isolation and exerciselook-up tool: check cases in your areamaps and charts: visual guide to the outbreakvideo: the 20-second hand wash the team working on an app for the uk is acutely conscious that it needs to retain the trust of the public if they are to achieve a target of getting about 60% of the population to install it when released.  telling citizens their government will be logging their every move would be a clear deterrent . but here's the problem. getting apps and other technology solutions out there fast, while cutting a few privacy corners, could mean that lockdowns and the other restrictions on daily life might be be eased earlier.  countries like the uk which are more cautious about privacy are likely to be slower in rolling out contact-tracing technology - and that may mean they are locked down for longer. so, might the public be willing to trade one kind of freedom -  the right to privacy - for another - the right to leave their homes and return to work?  as with so many areas of our lives, the virus is forcing us to confront difficult questions about our priorities. thousands of disney customers say they have been hacked after signing up to its online streaming service. since disney+ went live, attackers have stolen thousands of customers' accounts and put them up for sale on the dark web, according to a report.  people waited on telephone and online chat lines for hours, and many still say that disney has yet to sort their problems.  but the firm says it does not believe its systems have been compromised. "disney takes the privacy and security of our users' data very seriously and there is no indication of a security breach on disney+," a spokesman said. the statement indicates that members' details have been stolen by other means. that could involve spyware on users' devices or the re-use of login details stolen from elsewhere. disney's answer to netflix, disney+ is an online platform where fans can view its movies, short films and tv shows, including the marvel and star wars franchises.  ten million people signed up in its first week.  disney+ has not yet launched in the uk, but is available in the united states, canada and the netherlands. on 12 november, its first day live, people had technical problems and many complained on social media. others said they were locked out of their accounts, and since they contacted disney they have not heard back.  according to an investigation by zdnet, thousands of user accounts went on sale on the dark web.  only hours after the service launched, hackers were selling disney+ accounts for as little as $3 (£2.30). a subscription to the service costs $7 (£5.40) a month.  with the help of a cyber-security researcher, the bbc also found several hacked customer accounts for sale on the dark web.  thousands of these stolen accounts show what kind of subscription the person signed up with and when it expires.  customers say they saw their emails and passwords changed.  many say they used unique userids and passwords to access the streaming platform.  but jason hill, a lead researcher with cyberint, says it looks like many were stolen because people use the same passwords for different sites.  mr hill said that hackers can lift someone's password from a different site which has previously been hacked and then try it on a new site, like disney+. if it works, they steal the account. "whilst many may consider having a unique password for each online service to be difficult to manage, password managers simplify this process and allow you to generate and securely store unique difficult-to-guess passwords," he said.  the streaming service does not have two-factor authentication.  this is when a separate password is sent upon login, to verify an account identity.  others are concerned because they can use their disney+ login to access other products the company provides, like the disney store and its recreation parks. the online streaming service was hit by technical issues on its first day. people took to social media to complain that their pre-ordered streaming service did not work and that they faced long waits for customer service.  the company said in a tweet that it had an "overwhelming response" and apologised. prominent indian scholar and human rights defender anand teltumbde has turned 70 in a mumbai prison amid growing calls for his release, writes the bbc's geeta pandey in delhi. "then they came for me, and there was no one left to speak for me." professor teltumbde often quoted these iconic words from german lutheran pastor martin niemoller, criticising silence when faced with evil, in his books and speeches. on wednesday, when he turns 70 in a mumbai jail where he's been imprisoned for 90 days, his family and friends are trying to ensure that he's not greeted with silence. scores of letters and cards wishing him well on his birthday are expected to be delivered at taloja jail where he's being held. "anand is a respected academic who's been shut away for completely dubious reasons," balmurli natrajan, professor of anthropology at william paterson university in new jersey, who is among the people writing a letter to prof teltumbde, told the bbc. "we want him to know that we are constantly thinking of him, reading his books." counted among india's best-known public intellectuals, prof teltumbde has authored 30 books and is known for his incisive writing on india's harsh caste system. born to a dalit (formerly untouchables in india's rigid caste system) family, he worked in top positions in some of india's biggest oil companies before moving to academia. at present, he's head of the big data programme at the prestigious goa institute of management. a trenchant critic of the government, he's described prime minister narendra modi as "more dangerous than hitler and mussolini" and a "narcissist par excellence". on 14 april, when prof teltumbde turned himself in to federal investigators on court orders, he joined 10 other activists, poets and lawyers who have been arrested in connection with what is known as the bhima koregaon case.  they are being held under the uapa (unlawful activities prevention act) - an anti-terrorism law that makes it almost impossible to get bail. police accuse them of instigating caste violence at a dalit rally in bhima koregaon village in the western state of maharashtra on 1 january 2018.  although those detained weren't present in the village at the time, police blamed the violence on their speeches at a meeting the night before. they are also accused of working in tandem with the naxalites - banned ultra-left maoist rebels - to "overthrow the government and cause chaos in india". indian academic surrenders over violence charges but indian and international campaigners and rights organisations working for their release say they've been jailed for criticising the state. "all the 11 activists have worked relentlessly to protect the rights of some of india's most marginalised people, including dalits and tribals," amnesty international said in one of the several statements it has put out in the past few months calling for their release. human rights watch has called the detentions "wrongful" and "politically motivated" and questioned why the government did not investigate the allegations that hindu nationalist leaders may have had a role in the bhima koregaon violence?  in may, the european parliament subcommittee on human rights wrote to home minister amit shah saying it was alarmed by the "intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders" by the authorities. the letter also urged india to immediately release all prisoners in view of the coronavirus pandemic - most of the detainees are elderly with underlying health conditions and thus at serious risk of catching the infection in overcrowded jails.  prof natrajan says india has always been "a marketplace of ideas", pointing out that nobel laureate amartya sen once called indians "argumentative". but in the past eight years, the space for argument and debate has been shrinking. prof teltumbde, he says, has been setting the contours of key debates on globalisation and politics of caste and religion for the past 30 years. "he's been calling out caste deniers and hindu triumphalism. he's dared to point fingers at the powerful classes - he's telling them, 'here's what you're doing and how it's put a majority of indian people in misery'. and that makes him a dangerous man." prof teltumbde, says his wife rama, was shocked when his name first came up two years back in the list of accused in the bhima koregaon case. "we hadn't even imagined it in our worst dreams that something like this could ever happen to us," she told me on the phone from mumbai. "my husband is not a criminal," she says, her voice breaking with emotion. "he's an academic, a workaholic who spent 14-15 hours daily reading, writing and teaching." in his free time, she says, he would try to help the poor and the marginalised because he wanted to see an india that's better, more just. "to be thrown into jail for that is a very high price to pay." since her husband has been jailed, mrs teltumbde has been allowed a weekly two-minute phone call with him. india jails pregnant student despite covid-19 risk "i always ask him how's his health? and how's the prison food because i know the food there is very bad. he doesn't want to worry us, so he always says he's fine. and then he asks about his mother and our daughters." mrs teltumbde is the granddaughter of bhimrao ambedkar - the author of india's constitution and an icon to millions of dalits - and says she believes that her grandfather wouldn't recognise today's india. "i don't think he envisaged this kind of india where people are arrested for speaking their mind. we live in a democracy and freedom of speech is a right guaranteed under the constitution." but critics say it's a right that is under grave threat in today's india. those criticising pm modi are attacked on social media by nationalist trolls, and activists and students opposing the government are being jailed. most of the dissenters are charged under uapa and being held in prison without bail. earlier this year, police in delhi arrested several students who had protested against a controversial new citizenship law that critics say discriminates against muslims. they were labelled as "anti-nationals working to break up india" by news channels friendly to the government. female activists were slut-shamed on social media. while most continue to languish in overcrowded prisons, safoora zargar, a pregnant female student, was freed after three months in jail following global condemnation.  "the government is playing with the liberties of people by arresting them under flimsy charges," says mihir desai, prof teltumbde's lawyer. "the central charge against prof teltumbde," he says, "is that he was helping the naxalites by getting them recruits and spreading their ideology and that he was taking money from them." but when they raided his house, he says, they did not find any arms or cash. the only evidence the police have put forth so far are four "letters" that they waved at a press conference. mr desai says they are typed and unsigned and there are no addresses or email addresses on them. he says they are not written by prof teltumbde or addressed to him - the one thing they all have in common is the mention of an "anand" which is a common indian name. "these letters appear to be manufactured," he says adding that "even if they are real, how do they prove that this anand is prof teltumbde? also, anyone can write anything to anyone, but is that proof? these can't exist as evidence." the evidence is unlikely to stand scrutiny in court, mr desai says, but it's the process that's the punishment. "if a person is jailed for 10 years while the case goes on, their life is ruined."  as prof teltumbde completes three months in prison, his wife rama says their only demand is for him to be freed on bail and the government to start the trial soon so that "his name can be cleared". a day before he was taken into custody, prof teltumbde wrote an open letter where he detailed the harassment he says he's faced in the past two years - he wrote about how his home was raided, his wikipedia page was vandalised, and how the government inserted israeli spyware on his phone.  "as i see my india being ruined, it is with a feeble hope that i write to you at such a grim moment… i do not know when i shall be able to talk to you again. "however, i earnestly hope that you will speak out before your turn comes," he wrote. by jailing him, prof natrajan says, the government is trying to crush the very people who are trying to reason and debate. "but mark my words, anand will not be crushed. you can jail people, torture them, kill them, but you cannot beat ideas." un human rights experts have demanded an immediate investigation into allegations saudi arabia's crown prince hacked amazon boss jeff bezos's phone. they said mohammed bin salman should also be investigated for "continuous, direct and personal efforts to target perceived opponents". a message from a phone number used by the prince has been implicated in a breach of mr bezos's data. the kingdom's us embassy has denied the "absurd" story. but the independent un experts - agnes callamard, special rapporteur on summary executions and extrajudicial killings, and david kaye, special rapporteur on freedom of expression - said the crown prince's "possible involvement" had to be investigated. relations between saudi arabia and mr bezos - who also owns the washington post - worsened after jamal khashoggi, a prominent critic of the saudi government and one of the newspaper's staff, was murdered in the saudi consulate in istanbul in 2018. saudis sentence five over khashoggi murderhow saudi arabia's crown prince rose to power the killing took place months after the alleged cyber-hack took place. mr bezos's phone was hacked after he received a whatsapp message in may 2018 that was sent from the crown prince's personal account, according to the guardian newspaper, which broke the story. an investigation into the data breach reportedly found that the billionaire's phone began secretly sharing huge amounts of data after he received the encrypted video file. in a statement, ms callamard and mr kaye said: "the information we have received suggests the possible involvement of the crown prince in surveillance of mr bezos, in an effort to influence, if not silence, the washington post's reporting on saudi arabia." it said the allegations reinforced "other reporting pointing to a pattern of targeted surveillance of perceived opponents and those of broader strategic importance to the saudi authorities". was jeff bezos the weak link in cyber-security?saudi arabia accused over bezos hackwhat happened to jamal khashoggi? the experts linked the case heavily to the khashoggi murder, saying the post reporter's phone had been hacked at the same time as mr bezos's. they said there had been "a massive, clandestine online campaign against mr bezos and amazon, apparently targeting him principally as the owner of the washington post". the statement also called for "rigorous control" of the "unconstrained marketing, sale and use of spyware". the un experts cited "a 2019 forensic analysis of mr bezos' iphone that assessed with 'medium to high confidence' that his phone was infiltrated on 1 may 2018 via an mp4 video file sent from a whatsapp account utilised personally by mohammed bin salman". the crown prince and mr bezos had reportedly exchanged numbers a month earlier and within hours of the mp4's arrival, there was a "massive and unprecedented exfiltration of data" from mr bezos's phone. the analysis cited by the experts says the crown prince then "sent whatsapp messages to mr bezos... in which he allegedly revealed private and confidential information about mr bezos' personal life". private information was then leaked to the american tabloid, the national enquirer. in february 2019 mr bezos accused it of "extortion and blackmail" after it published text messages between him and his girlfriend, former fox television presenter lauren sánchez. a month earlier he and mackenzie bezos, his wife of 25 years, had announced that they planned to divorce having been separated for a "long period". the twitter account of the kingdom's us embassy issued an outright denial of the allegations against the crown prince. "we call for an investigation on these claims so that we can have all the facts out," the embassy said. mr bezos has made no response to the un experts' statement, but did tweet an image of himself with khashoggi's fiancée, along with the tag #jamal: analysis by jane wakefield, bbc news technology reporter a hack such as this was "horribly easy to do once the vulnerability involved had been discovered," says computer expert prof alan woodward. the seemingly innocent video would have contained malware that surreptitiously installed itself on the targeted phone. from there it would have been possible for the hacker to gain access to all the functions of the phone, from the gps locator, to the camera, to the banking facilities and messaging apps. such access is made possible via bugs in the code and, last year, a security flaw in whatsapp was revealed that would have allowed hackers to hide malicious code inside video files.  phone hacking is, says prof woodward, all too common in certain countries that are keen to keep an eye on journalists, dissidents and other activists perceived to be a threat to their regimes. so-called stalkerware is available off the shelf to these governments. but what about the involvement of the saudi crown prince? was it really him who installed the malware? it is unlikely that he set the phone up himself. so was his phone also being spied on? or was he simply a vessel being used by the saudi authorities? the plot thickens. jun 2017 - jamal khashoggi flees saudi arabia and goes into self-imposed exile in the ussept 2017 - khashoggi starts writing for the washington post, criticising the polices of mohammed bin salmanapr 2018 - mr bezos attends a dinner with the crown prince and they exchange numbers1 may 2018 - mr bezos receives an encrypted mp4 video file allegedly sent from the crown prince's personal whatsapp account. mr bezos's data leaks out2 oct 2018 - jamal khashoggi is murdered inside the saudi consulate in istanbulnov 2018-feb 2019 - prince mohammed sends mr bezos whatsapp messages allegedly revealing private and confidential information about mr bezos' personal lifejan 2019 - the national enquirer publishes an exposé of mr bezos' extramarital affair with lauren sanchezfeb 2019 - mr bezos accuses the national enquirer of "extortion and blackmail". its publisher says it acted lawfullyjan 2020 - un experts call for an inquiry into the crown prince's alleged involvement in the hack a prominent lebanese actor who has spent months in detention accused of collaborating with israel has had the case against him dropped. a judge freed ziad itani from detention and ordered the arrest of a security officer who built the case against him.  mr itani was suspected of gathering information on lebanese politicians with a view to passing it on to israel.  lebanon technically remains at war with israel and collaborating is punishable by death.  mr itani was detained in november on charges of "collaborating and communicating with the israeli enemy". state security officials said his arrest followed "several months of monitoring, follow-up and investigations". it was alleged that mr itani had confessed to being "tasked to monitor a group of high-level political figures". however, close associates said his "confession" was extracted under duress, a claim denied by the authorities. data-stealing spyware 'traced to lebanon'israeli vulture cleared of spying lebanon bans wonder woman over israel star the case has been widely covered in lebanese media and has thrown a spotlight on the country's security apparatus. as he left roumieh prison on tuesday, a tearful mr itani flashed a "v" for victory sign and said he had been subjected to a great injustice. "i am an artist and the son of the stage... how could i be accused of such ugly things?" lebanon's official national news agency reported him saying. prime minister saad hariri later met the actor and said the security services had received "wrong information". the security officer arrested on the judges orders was a former head of an anti-cybercrime unit, lt col suzan hobeiche. she was taken into detention earlier this month on suspicion of having fabricated evidence against the actor. it is not clear exactly what charges she now faces. yana peel, the ceo of the serpentine galleries in london, has resigned from her role after three years in the job. peel said her decision came "in light of a concerted lobbying campaign against my husband's recent investment" referencing "toxic, personal attacks". peel's husband is an owner of investment company novalpina capital management international, which invests in controversial israeli tech firm nso. amnesty international has criticised nso's use of surveillance technology. in a statement, serpentine galleries said peel "will be sorely missed. the arts sector will be poorer without her immeasurable contributions to our cultural lives." peel said in her statement: "the work of the serpentine... cannot be allowed to be undermined by misguided personal attacks on me and my family. these attacks are based upon inaccurate media reports now subject to legal complaints.  "i have decided i am better able to continue my work in supporting the arts, the advancement of human rights and freedom of expression by moving away from my current role." she added: "the world of art is about free expression. but it is not about bullying and intimidation. i welcome debate and discussion about the realities of life in the digital age. there is a place for these debates, but they should be constructive, fair and factual - not based upon toxic personal attacks." mrs peel owns one-third of the novalpina holding company but her representatives stress she has only a single-digit percentage, indirect interest in the relevant fund and no role in operational or investment decisions. novalpina began funding nso group technologies earlier this year. nso has previously been accused of selling spyware called pegasus to agencies which use it to monitor human rights activists. but the group insists that its products have been used by law enforcement agencies in the battle against terrorism and wider criminal behaviour. according to its own website, nso group "provides the tools that support official authorities to lawfully address the most dangerous issues in today's world. governments use our products to prevent terrorism, break up criminal operations, find missing persons, and assist search and rescue teams." following an exchange of letters with human rights organisation amnesty, novalpina issued a statement last week announcing "a new framework" to "bring nso group in full alignment with un guiding principles on business and human rights". it continued: "novalpina and nso will do whatever necessary to ensure nso's technology is used only for its intended lawful purpose - the prevention of harm to our fundamental human rights to life, liberty and security from acts of terrorism and serious crime." the university of toronto's citizen lab monitors digital attacks against civil society and has been tracking the nso group for several years. in a letter published on tuesday, citizen lab said it had "sent multiple letters to novalpina capital llp and nso group seeking specific answers regarding a number of concerns, including at least 31 reports of abusive targeting. these questions remain largely unanswered". the serpentine said it was "with a mix of gratitude and regret that the board of trustees of the serpentine galleries has accepted the resignation of ceo yana peel. "since taking on the role in 2016, yana has done an exemplary job furthering the mission, visibility, and financial standing of the serpentine, increasing support and donations, overseeing ground-breaking exhibitions, and expanding the serpentine's programme internationally year over year." peel oversaw programmes from artists such as grayson perry and rose wylie and commissioned touring exhibitions to milan, miami, paris, berlin, chicago, new york and hong kong.  correction 1 april 2020: an earlier version of this article said that yana peel was listed on company records as an indirect owner of novalpina. this has been since amended to explain that at the time of publication she owned one-third of a holding company, novalpina capital group. ms peel's representatives have explained this means she had no control or involvement in the novalpina capital investment fund, which acquired a stake in nso group. our article has also been updated to make that clear. follow us on facebook, on twitter @bbcnewsents, or on instagram at bbcnewsents. if you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk. if you want to get this briefing by email, sign-up here his comments on president donald trump's administration have caused problems for her government but theresa may is giving sir kim darroch  - the uk's ambassador to the us - her "full support". however, downing street says the emails he sent in 2017 "do not reflect the closeness of, and the esteem in which we hold, the relationship" between the countries. sir kim's messages described the trump administration - then in its early days - as "dysfunctional" and "clumsy and inept". the president has responded to their publication with anger, tweeting on monday that he and his colleagues would "no longer deal" with sir kim. bbc political editor laura kuenssberg describes downing street's stance as a "stiff brush-off". here's her take on the situation. the two men battling it out to be conservative leader and prime minister meet for the first time in a one-to-one tv debate later. itv's julie etchingham will oversee the hour-long event, in which tory members and other members of the public ask questions, from 20:00 bst.  we can expect a lot of talk about brexit from jeremy hunt and boris johnson, in front of an audience of 200 people at mediacityuk in salford, greater manchester. before the debate, why not compare where the candidates stand on the main issues here? and what's on the minds of the 180,000 tory members choosing the winner? get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning the disease amyloidosis causes nerve and organ damage, and it can be fatal. but a form of treatment using a technique called "gene silencing" is now available on the nhs in england. read here about what it is and how it works. by sean coughlan, education and family correspondent "it's important to talk about the cost of going to open days," says rachel, a sixth-former from plymouth who is looking at university choices. "not everyone can afford to go out of their area. train tickets are expensive and there's most likely accommodation as well."  this is peak season for university open days, when tens of thousands of teenagers and their families are criss-crossing the country viewing places where they might study. a return trip by train from north to south can cost £200 or even £300. and even with railcard discounts, when there might be four or five universities to visit, the open-day season can soon become an unaffordable closed door. read the full article the guardian leads on donald trump's "scathing" attack on theresa may, saying the us president's reaction to comments by the uk's washington ambassador sir kim darroch create a "dilemma" for the next pm about how to deal with relations between the two countries. the i concentrates on mr trump's criticism of mrs may's handling of brexit as a "mess". "our man in limbo" is metro's take on sir kim's position. elsewhere, the daily mail says families have spent £15bn in the last two years caring for relatives with dementia. and the daily mirror reports that one-in-five meat products are contaminated with dna from other animals.  hong kong extradition bill dead, says leader carrie lam cancer prevention boys aged 12 to 13 to get hpv vaccine himalayan climbers video footage of team's last moments released filippo magnini italian olympic swimming star saves drowning newly-wed off coast of sardinia the kids fighting 'holiday poverty' what is lobbying? 'the kids emptied our bank account playing fifa' sign up for a morning briefing direct to your phone 10:00 gchq opens an exhibition at the science museum in london, showing items from its 100-year history, including cold war russian spyware and artefacts from the world wars. 12:00 the new children's laureate is announced, to replace lauren child. 1982 a man breaks into buckingham palace and spends 10 minutes talking to the queen in her bedroom. here are the world's most innovative cities (national geographic) what do people in solitary confinement want to see? (new yorker) zoe's school wasn't up to scratch. so she moved out of town to realise her dreams (sydney morning herald) do you see a beach or a broken car door? (daily mail) police and army bosses have been criticised for failings leading up to the death of a stalking victim at the hands of her soldier ex-boyfriend.   trimaan dhillon cut 24-year-old alice ruggles' throat after breaking into her gateshead flat in october 2016. a review has found northumbria police and the army failed to properly address signs of l/cpl dhillon's jealous and obsessive behaviour. dhillon, 26, was jailed for a minimum of 22 years after a trial last year.  a domestic homicide review, carried out by gateshead community safety board, concluded miss ruggles was subjected to "significant stalking" and that army officials failed to record a previous domestic assault charge against dhillon in kent. the review heard miss ruggles, who was originally from tur langton, near market harborough in leicestershire and worked for sky, had contacted northumbria police about dhillon's stalking in the days before her death. in one a call handler asked miss ruggles if she wanted him to be arrested, but she declined. the review found police should have made that decision and it should not have been left to the victim. the review noted that a police officer did contact dhillon's barracks in edinburgh and spoke to a superior, but not military police or police scotland, and dhillon was then told by the regiment to stop contacting her or face arrest. but he ignored the warning and eventually drove 120 miles to tyneside to murder miss ruggles. the report concluded: "the perpetrator's willingness to travel provided an indication of the level of his obsessive behaviour that was overlooked. "in addition, there was a lack of clarity about the roles and responsibilities of the home office, police and armed forces, which led to some confusion about how best to deal with the perpetrator." the review made 20 recommendations, including making it an offence to threaten to release intimate photos of an ex-partner, as dhillon did when miss ruggles called off their relationship. it also urged the home office to review the effectiveness of the police 101 non-emergency number, after it emerged miss ruggles abandoned a call to northumbria police after being kept on hold for almost seven minutes. the review described the incident as a "missed opportunity to support alice". last year the the independent office for police conduct (iopc) said two northumbria officers had cases of misconduct to answer while another had performed unsatisfactorily. it also found the force treated the matter as harassment rather than stalking. the force has since apologised to miss ruggles' parents, sue hill and clive ruggles. the review also called on the home office to review the legality of spyware after concerns about the ease in which dhillon was able to hack miss ruggles' social media accounts. responding to the report, ms hill and mr ruggles said: "alice died in tragic circumstances and it is important that failings are acknowledged, lessons learned, and improvements made.   "we hope that the army will now realise that they have an important part to play when one of their soldiers is accused of criminal behaviour against a civilian and, like other agencies, will proceed to learn lessons from alice's case." brigadier christopher coles, head of army personnel services group, said: "we are committed to tacking domestic abuse and last year launched a strategy to help prevent domestic abuse in all its forms.  "this includes prevention of abuse in the home and providing support to the families of service personnel who may be affected." northumbria police's assistant chief constable rachel bacon said: "with the help of alice's family we are now leading the way in training officers in the best way to deal with these types of offences. "their continued determination to change the law to better protect victims of stalking is commendable." a review of the best commentary on and around the world... "the fbi will not have to bug your living room; you will do it yourself."  so says michael price of salon.com, the nervous new owner of a "smart" tv - a web-connected telly that recognises his face, listens to his voice, and could send that information (and more, including emails he receives) to a third party. "got that? don't say personal or sensitive stuff in front of the tv," writes price. "i do not doubt that this data is important to providing customised content and convenience, but it is also incredibly personal, constitutionally protected information that should not be for sale to advertisers and should require a warrant for law enforcement to access." the daily mail reports british it consultant jason huntley found his lg smart tv had sent his children's names, unencrypted, over the internet "because he had watched a family video on his set". price explains current laws offer very little privacy protection to the "third party records", including data stored in the cloud (although one federal court of appeals has found this rule unconstitutional with respect to email). speaking about web-based "smart" devices, retired general david petraeus, former head of the cia, said in 2012 that "items of interest will be located, identified, monitor, and remotely controlled through technologies such as radio-frequency identification, sensor networks, tiny embedded servers and energy harvester." that means, price argues, as the "internet of things" matures, household appliances - even your socks - may be wired to interact online.  of course, it is possible to disable data collection, but that immobilises many of the high-tech functions. "this leaves consumers with an unacceptable choice between keeping up with technology and retaining their personal privacy… we should not have to channel surf worried that the tv is recording our behaviour for the benefit of advertisers and police. companies need to become more mindful of consumer privacy when deciding whether to collect personal data." a chinese partner in cyber-security - russia and china see eye-to-eye on their increased role in cyber-security, according to elena chernenko, vladislav novyii and ivan safronov in russia's kommersant. both countries support the "internationalisation" of internet management, which includes the sovereign right of a government to control internet sites in "its own national segment" (the us does not recognize the existence of national segments). russian president vladimir putin will visit beijing next month, where he is expected to sign a bilateral agreement on cyber-security. this follows several collaborative deals between china and russia in information technology and communications. in may, the russian state telecom company signed a $60m (£37.5m) contract with chinese company huawei to build an underwater communication line in the russian far east.  meanwhile, they say, any us-china partnership is mired in disagreement over us accusations of chinese industrial and government cyber-espionage an out-of-date economic playbook - prime minister shinzo abe has pledged a number of "third-arrow" reforms to bring about japan's resurgence, but bloomberg's william pesek says these would have been appropriate 10 to 15 years ago - more modern measures are necessary. today japan should provide more support for a start-up boom, the end of amakudari - "the equivalent of the revolving door that shifts wall street bankers into top washington jobs and back" - and more flexible immigration policies. pesek also says a forward-thinking energy policy, reducing trade barriers and greater gender equality in public-sector leadership roles are necessary if japan is finally going to turn things around. little progress three years after muammar gaddafi - the past several months have been a turbulent period of violence, resulting in a divisive political situation, according to gianluca eramo of the libya herald. the author says in addition to local fighting, neighbouring countries and regional powers are manoeuvring and steering among libyan militias to gain access, power and control.  "the international community must urgently develop a concrete political strategy to support the legitimate aspirations of the libyan people for security, dignity and democracy," said eramo.  political discourse that focuses on shared, open and fair transitional justice mechanisms can shift attention from the current tendency to look outside the country for political backing and support, says eramo. "it can therefore also help reduce the risk of external actors fuelling cycles of violence." little help on ebola from within - almost 40 years after ebola was first identified, africa does not have the capacity to play a pivotal role in fighting the virus, argues brian sedze of the standard. the continent, he says, has not invested in research, believing some overseas country would do the research instead.  "the continent seems to be completely outraged at the international community for what they believe is a lethargic reaction to efforts at containing the ebola epidemic," sedze adds. "there are also murmurs of disapproval that the us provided 3,900 soldiers to help in the fight of ebola instead of medical personnel." the question, he asks, is how many doctors and nurses did africa itself provide for this effort. the lack of personnel might be explained by the ever present dependency syndrome. "while the world was doing all this for us, africa was busy spending millions sponsoring tribal conflicts, billions of dollars on corruption, funding lavish lifestyles of its corrupt leaders, siphoning billions of dollars to tax havens and sponsoring warped priorities that only encourage political expedience at the cost of lives of its citizens," he concludes israeli columnists react to an unnamed senior us official insulting prime minister benyamin netanyahu in an atlantic magazine article earlier this week. "this is just the latest in a series of vindictive acts by the obama administration because israel has dared to reject its diktats... netanyahu should be commended for withstanding the unreasonable pressure from obama and kerry, avoiding outright confrontations and in so doing, retaining the support of american public opinion and congress." - isi leibler in yisrael hayom. "the latest attack signals the policy the united states will adopt toward netanyahu's government following the upcoming congressional elections and in the two years left for obama at the white house. the tight security and intelligence cooperation will continue, but the diplomatic protection at the un and international forums will not be immediate and granted." - barak ravid in ha'aretz.‎ have you found an interesting opinion piece about global issues that we missed? share it with us via email at echochambers (at) bbc.co.uk. amnesty international has released a program that can spot spying software used by governments to monitor activists and political opponents. the detekt software was needed as standard anti-virus programs often missed spying software, it said. amnesty said many governments used sophisticated spying tools that could grab images from webcams or listen via microphones to monitor people. it wants to see more regulation of the spying software used by governments. "these spying tools are marketed on their ability to get round your bog-standard anti-virus," said tanya o'carroll, an adviser on technology and human rights at amnesty international. the makers of spying software did extensive testing to ensure that the way they infected and lurked on a computer did not trigger security alerts, she added.  detekt has been developed over the past two years to spot the few telltale signs spying programs do leave. the intense scan it carries out on a hard drive means a computer cannot be used while detekt is running. four separate rights groups - amnesty international, the electronic frontier foundation, privacy international and digitale gesellschaft - have worked together to create the spyware spotter, which is available free of charge.  the group is now looking for help to keep detekt up to date and expand the range of spying programs it can catch. the first version of detekt has been written to run on windows computers because the people most often being monitored use that software, said ms o'carroll.  many repressive governments had been using spying software for some time and the programs were becoming increasingly popular with democratically elected governments too, said ms carroll. spying software has been found on the computers of activists in bahrain, syria, ethiopia, vietnam, germany, tibet, north korea and many other nations. "it's easier to name the countries that are not using these spying tools than those that are," she said.  the trade in spyware used by governments is now a market worth about £3bn ($5bn) a year, said ms o'carroll, adding it was time for this trade to be better regulated.  prof alan woodward from the university of surrey, who advises governments on security issues, wondered how easy it would be for amnesty and its partners to maintain detekt. "it's not really their core business," he said. "are they going to keep updating the software because the spyware variants change daily?" he also questioned how useful it would be against regimes that used specially written software rather than commercial versions that were well known and documented. "if a technique is known about widely, those regimes will assume it's going to be ineffective and use another approach," he said.  claudio guarnieri, the german security researcher who created detekt, said there was a growing roster of firms producing spying software.  "people think the uses of spyware by governments are isolated cases. they are not," mr guarnieri told the bbc. "their discovery is isolated. "spyware is becoming the final solution for surveillance operations to overcome encryption.  "the real problem is nobody really asked the public whether that's acceptable and some countries are legitimising their use without considering the consequences and inherent issues."  the software is spread in booby-trapped attachments on email messages, by seeding malware on compromised sites or with fake messaging software, said mr guarnieri. karl zetterlund, a senior researcher at security firm sentor, said the needs of law enforcement were understandably different to those of the average cyberthief. "criminals are mainly interested in information that can somehow generate money. law enforcement spyware may only need to collect a few pieces of identifying information, such as a net address, from the computer," he said.  "generally, policeware may be better at hiding, as normal malware often aims for strength in numbers and spreading is more important than passing under the radar." there had also been cases in the past, he said, when computer security companies collaborated with governments to ignore spyware they found planted on machines.  if you want to get this briefing by email, sign-up here research by bbc news suggests that a quarter of patients with sepsis have experienced delays in getting treatment. hospitals are supposed to put a person on an antibiotic drip within an hour if sepsis is suspected. while the charity uk sepsis trust says the figures are concerning, nhs england insists hospitals are getting better at spotting the condition. but the widow of one man who died after developing sepsis told the bbc she was "angry" at the delay in treating him with antibiotics. hayley scott said her husband, simon, waited six days to get treated, despite his hospital notes suggesting he should have been on them from day two. the hospital has said there were "areas of learning" resulting from his case. sepsis is caused by the immune system over-reacting to an infection, and can lead to septic shock, organ failure and even death. find out more about sepsis here, and why one man wants mandatory training for nhs staff. it may have been only last sunday that us president donald trump met north korean leader kim jong-un in the demilitarised zone which divides the two koreas, but relations between them appear to have soured already. pyongyang's delegation to the united nations has accused washington of being "obsessed with sanctions" and "hell-bent on hostile acts". the rhetorical skirmish came about because the us and other western nations have written a joint letter calling for further sanctions on north korea. the us has yet to respond to the north korea statement. meanwhile, an australian who went missing in north korea last week has been released and is safe. it is understood alex sigley is now in china and will travel on to japan. get news from the bbc in your inbox, each weekday morning manchester is set to ring the changes on thursday as thousands of people are expected to take part in a mass bell-ringing event created by yoko ono. john lennon's widow told the bbc she was hopeful for "an incredible vibration" that "might just change the world". while ono, now 86, is unable to come to manchester for the event, she will appear on big screens to give the bell-ringers their instructions. the whole thing will be live-streamed from 18:00 bst and forms the opening of the manchester international festival. by jill martin wrenn, business reporter as consumers become ever more concerned about environmental and ethical issues, pioneers in the global denim industry are cleaning up its act. blackhorse lane ateliers, which describes itself as a "craft jeans maker", has an open-door policy. "anybody can walk in here, even without an appointment," says han ates, the founder of the london-based small business. "through that we create transparency." by opening up its doors, blackhorse lane ateliers is able to show potential customers that its factory is clean, the 20 employees are happy, and that the jeans are worth keeping - rather than throwing away at the end of each season. read the full article promises made by conservative party leadership contenders boris johnson and jeremy hunt dominate thursday's front pages. writing in the sun, mr johnson says he'll ensure the uk has a "good brexit", as well as recruiting 20,000 more police officers and stopping labour leader jeremy corbyn from becoming prime minister. mr hunt similarly claims he can take on mr corbyn, according to the daily telegraph, and also plans to hold a vote on ending the fox hunting ban. elsewhere, the i leads with a story which says up to 70 labour mps face deselection in a party "purge". there's more from thursday's papers in our full review. railway killed worker 'an absolutely fantastic guy' tories leadership rivals make new pledges as voting nears alcohol abuse 'affects one in five uk inpatients' investments national trust shuns fossil fuel stocks the fabric that changed the way we live tweet of the day: trudie goodwin on the hoopoe 100 years of the council estate sign up for a morning briefing direct to your phone 12:00 the annual assessment of policing in england and wales for 2018 is published. 12:30 the england rugby team unveils its kit for the 2019 world cup. 1995 then-prime minister john major wins his battle to remain leader of the conservative party. chinese border authorities installing spyware on tourists' phones (sky news) the unlikely cannabis revolution powering canada’s local economy (new statesman) the sandman, catch-22, cloud atlas... is there such thing as an 'unfilmable' book? (the guardian) scientists are searching for a mirror universe. it could be sitting right in front of you. (nbc news) several prominent journalists and activists in mexico have filed a complaint accusing the government of spying on them by hacking their phones.  the accusation follows a report in the new york times that says they were targeted with spyware meant to be used against criminals and terrorists. the newspaper says messages examined by forensic analysts show the software was used against government critics. a mexican government spokesman "categorically" denied the allegations. the report says that the software, known as pegasus, was sold to mexican federal agencies by israeli company nso group on the condition that it only be used to investigate criminals and terrorists. the software can infiltrate smartphones and monitor calls, texts and other communications, the new york times said. it can also activate a phone's microphone or camera, effectively turning the device into a personal bug. but instead of being used to track suspected criminals, the targets allegedly included investigative journalists, anti-corruption activists and even lawyers. a link is usually sent in a message to a smartphone. if the person taps on it, the spyware is installed, and huge amounts of private data - text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what is being picked up by the device's microphone and camera - is hackedvery little is known about nso group, the secretive israel-based company behind pegasus, but security researchers have called it a cyber arms dealer. the company was thought to be worth $1bn (£780m) in 2015the company has acknowledged that it sells tools to governments but has given very little details about who its customers are. it has said, however, that it has no control over how its tools are used and for what purpose read more here nine people have now filed a criminal complaint. at a news conference in mexico city, journalist carmen aristegui accused the state of criminal activity.  "the agents of the mexican state, far from doing what they should be doing legally, have used our resources, our taxes, our money to commit serious crimes," she said. a spokesman for president enrique peña nieto rejected the allegations, saying that the government carries out intelligence work against the organised crime and threats to the national security in accordance with the country's laws, but that it does not include journalists or activists. "the government categorically denies that any of its members carries out surveillance or interference in communications of defenders of human rights, journalists, anti-corruption activists or any other person without prior judicial authorization," a spokesman told the bbc. miguel agustín pro juárez centre: one of the most respected human rights groups in mexico, it has looked into the disappearance and suspected massacre of 43 students in 2014 and other high profile cases, including a military raid that left 22 dead in 2014. its executive director and two other senior executives allegedly received infected messagesaristegui noticias: award-winning journalist carmen aristegui, who also hosts a daily programme on cnn en español, has reported on suspected cases of corruption and conflict of interest, including a scandal involving the wife of president enrique peña nieto acquiring a $7m (£5.5m) house from a government contractor. two members of her investigative team and her under-age son allegedly received some 50 messagescarlos loret de mola: a popular journalist at leading tv network televisa, he allegedly received several messages containing the softwaremexican institute for competitiveness (imco): it has led efforts for anti-corruption legislation. two senior members were allegedly targeted. whatsapp has confirmed that a security flaw in the app let attackers install spy software on their targets' smartphones. that has left many of its 1.5 billion users wondering how safe the "simple and secure" messaging app really is. on wednesday, chip-maker intel confirmed that new problems discovered with some of its processors could reveal secret information to attacks. how trustworthy are apps and devices? no. messages on whatsapp are end-to-end encrypted, meaning they are scrambled when they leave the sender's device. the messages can be decrypted by the recipient's device only. that means law enforcement, service providers and cyber-criminals cannot read any messages they intercept as they travel across the internet. however, there are some caveats.  messages can be read before they are encrypted or after they are decrypted. that means any spyware dropped on the phone by an attacker could read the messages. on tuesday, news site bloomberg published an opinion article calling whatsapp's encryption "pointless", given the security breach. however, that viewpoint has been widely ridiculed by cyber-security experts. "i don't think it's helpful to say end-to-end encryption is pointless just because a vulnerability is occasionally found," said dr jessica barker from the cyber-security company cygenta. "encryption is a good thing that does offer us protection in most cases." cyber-security is often a game of cat and mouse. end-to-end encryption makes it much harder for attackers to read messages, even if they do eventually find a way to access some of them. whatsapp gives the option to back up chats to google drive or icloud but those back-up copies are not protected by the end-to-end encryption. an attacker could access old chats if they broke into a cloud storage account. how to stay safe on whatsappwhatsapp discovers 'targeted' surveillance attack of course, even if users decide not to back up chats, the people they message may still upload a copy to their cloud storage. ultimately, any app could contain a security vulnerability that leaves a phone open to attackers. whatsapp is owned by facebook, which typically issues software fixes quickly. of course, even large companies can make mistakes and facebook has had its share of data and privacy breaches over the years. there is no guarantee a rival chat app would not experience a similar security lapse.  at least, following the disclosure of this flaw, whatsapp is slightly more secure than it was a week ago. some rival chat apps are open-source projects, which means anybody can look at the code powering the app and suggest improvements. "open-source software has its value in that it be can tested more widely but it doesn't necessarily mean it's more secure," said dr barker. "vulnerabilities can still be found with any tech, so it's not the answer to our prayers." and if someone did decide to switch to a rival chat app, they would still have to convince their contacts to do the same. a chat app without friends is not much use. in theory, any device or service could be hacked. in fact, security researchers often joyfully pile in on companies that claim their products are "unhackable". they quickly discover vulnerabilities and the embarrassed companies retract their claims. if people are worried data may be stolen from their computer, one option is to "air gap" the device: disconnect it from the internet entirely. that stops remote hackers accessing the machine - but even an air gap would not stop an attacker with physical access to the device. dr barker stressed the importance of installing software updates for apps and operating systems. "whatsapp pushed out an update and consumers might not have realised that security fixes are often included in updates," she told bbc news. whatsapp did not help the cause, however, by describing the latest update as adding "full-size stickers", and not mentioning the security breach. "people need to be made aware that updates are really important. the quicker we can update our apps, the more secure we are," said dr barker. as always, there are simple security steps to remember: install app and operating system security updates use a different password for every app or servicewhere possible, enable two-step authentication to stop attackers logging in to accountsbe careful about what apps you downloaddo not click links in emails or messages you are not expecting the police service of northern ireland have said that 100 webcam blackmails have been reported to them this year. they say that people of all ages have been targeted and that "cyber-stalking is becoming a prevalent issue in northern ireland". police have warned people to review their privacy and security settings and ensure updated anti-spyware is installed in devices. they said education on "the risks of cyber-stalking" was crucial. last year, police said they were investigating claims that a number of people in northern ireland were being targeted by international crime gangs in the same way as county tyrone schoolboy ronan hughes. the 17-year-old from coalisland, was the victim of what police call webcam blackmail and took his own life in june 2015. ronan was tricked into sharing intimate images of himself online, and some of them were then sent to his friends when he failed to pay a ransom. his family said he was being blackmailed by a gang based in nigeria. firms could face fines of up to £17m or 4% of global turnover if they fail to protect themselves from cyber-attacks, the government has warned. the crackdown is aimed at making sure essential services such as water, energy, transport and health firms are safeguarded against hacking attempts. firms will also be required to show they have a strategy to cover power failures and environmental disasters. digital minister matt hancock said any fines would be a last resort. they would not apply to firms which had put safeguards in place but still suffered an attack, the department for digital, culture, media and sport (dcms) said. mr hancock, who is launching a consultation on the plans, said: "we want the uk to be the safest place in the world to live and be online, with our essential services and infrastructure prepared for the increasing risk of cyber-attack." the dcms said firms that take cyber-security seriously should already have measures in place to prevent attacks or systems failures. it said the consultation was aimed at determining how to implement the network and information systems (nis) directive which becomes law across the eu next may. it is separate from the general data protection regulations (gdpr), which are aimed at protecting data, rather than services. the gdpr will replace the uk's data protection act 1998 from 25 may next year and the government has confirmed that the uk's decision to leave the eu will not change this. earlier this year, nhs services across england and scotland were hit by a large-scale cyber-attack that disrupted hospital and gp appointments. and the threat to firms from cyber-attacks appears to have grown. nearly half (46%) of british businesses discovered at least one cyber-security breach or attack in the past year, a government survey earlier this year found. that proportion rose to two-thirds among medium and large companies. most often, these breaches involved fraudulent emails being sent to staff or security issues relating to viruses, spyware or malware. organised gangs from overseas are blamed for an increase in the number of people blackmailed over intimate online material. police in dorset have investigated 18 cases in two months, mainly men being blackmailed over photos or videos. criminals from a number of countries are obtaining the material after posing as people looking for romance online. officers have identified perpetrators in the us, ghana, ivory coast and the philippines. in some cases webcams have been activated by spyware to record victims without their knowledge, police said. det supt mark callaghan said: "the problem we have with locating the perpetrators of 'sextortion' offences is the suspects will often hack in to other people's accounts and use a variety of methods to disguise their location.  "most of the offenders are believed to be abroad in a variety of countries. "it is important that the public recognise the potential risks of their online behaviour." think your kid's being bullied? or sending sexts? or dealing drugs? there's an app for that.  in the united states, nearly 80% of teenagers own mobile phones. about half of those are smartphones - with access to the internet, games, cameras and social media.  that worries many parents. and those fears are fuelling a growing number of so-called parent apps - to track what kids are doing online.  teensafe can work as a personal cia spy for parents.  the company urges parents to tell their children they are being monitored, but the app can work covertly and show what kids are posting on social media as well as deleted texts and messages sent via popular apps such as kik, whatsapp and snapchat.  "it's absolutely legal for a parent to do this discreetly," says teensafe's chief executive rawdon messenger.  "the real question is, 'is it justified?' and those are moral decisions a parent has to make. what we believe is that when it comes to protecting your child from these things - privacy is trumped by protection." mr messenger says he believes about half the families who use teensafe use it to spy on their kids.  teensafe operates in the united states, canada, australia and new zealand, and is hoping to expand to the uk soon. since it started in 2011, it says it has had 800,000 people sign up for the service.  aside from tracking social media use and texting, other parent apps can actually monitor how fast someone is driving or moving in a vehicle as a passenger.  mamabear offers that service, and co-founder robyn spoto says the app is used to link entire families and send alerts when someone is driving above the speed limit or has ventured outside a pre-determined boundary. it cannot be used covertly. "technology is your right-hand man to give you the information that you need so that you can have the right conversation," says ms spoto.  she adds that many families find it reassuring to get push notifications about their children's whereabouts.  ms spoto uses mamabear for her parents and 10-year-old son, who does not have a phone but uses an ipod touch.  but don't her own parents feel annoyed that their adult daughter gets push notifications every time they speed to work or come home at 01:00 from a party? laughing, ms spoto says they're used to it.  "it's not like i'm creeping on them," she says, adding that she likes the assurance of knowing they got home safely. teenagers are typically better at using technology than their parents, and apps such as these can create a cat-and-mouse game of kids trying to avoid prying eyes.  but the parent apps are prepared - if your child does not call you back or turns the phone off, you can disable the phone so it only works to call mum or dad.  some call them the "stalker apps", worrying that data gathered by smartphone spyware could be misused by suspicious spouses or mistrustful bosses.  and it seems the us authorities share these concerns. last year the fbi arrested a man for distributing an app called stealthgenie, which intercepted emails and texts as well as recorded phone calls.  prosecutors highlighted that the software was marketed as being "undetectable" and suggested it was designed for "stalkers and domestic abusers". in the first ever criminal conviction of its kind, hammad akbar was subsequently fined $500,000 (£332,840) after pleading guilty to advertising and selling the app. smartphone monitoring services are, however, legal to use in the us, so long as the software is installed on a device used by either the customer's: child - who must be under 18 years oldemployee - so long as the worker has given their consent and been told they are being monitored several available products highlight their restrictions in their small print, even if, occasionally, they also market their "cheating spouse"-catching potential. "as far as the uk is concerned, the use of 'stalker apps' could very easily land you on the wrong side of the uk data protection act 1998 and other applicable uk laws ," commented vin bange from the law firm taylor wessing. "domestic use is treated very differently to surveillance in the workplace - the latter is a complex area which requires close observation of the law and employee 'consent' cannot be seen as a silver bullet." when asked if they think their parents are spying on them, a random group of teens at a busy shopping centre in los angeles thought it was highly unlikely.  parents are too busy, they say. they trust them.  but when i visited a primary school in los angeles, where cyber-security expert lou rabon was addressing parents at his son's school, many of the parents were open to tracking their kids' every move. "i would chip them like a dog if i could," one mother said.  many of the parents there thought they were tech-savvy and were shocked to see how easy it was for mr rabon to pinpoint their geographic location by the photos they posted on facebook - he then taught them how to turn off geo-tagging on their camera phones.  they groaned in horror as he showed online messages a predator had posted in a chat room posing as a depressed and lonely 14-year-old girl looking for friends.  mr rabon, who is in the process of creating a parent app of his own, advises parents to use obscure passwords.  one mother told the story of her nine-year-old son who was taught by an older child on the school bus how to get around parental controls on his phone by using a commonly used password in the family.  "within minutes he had googled the word 'sex' and my nine-year-old was on a porn site," she told parents at the meeting.  "he saw things we hoped he wouldn't see ever or for at least another 10 years."  it doesn't bode well for parents trying to instil trust and independence in their children.  mr rabon says it's naive for parents to blindly trust their kids - and he agrees that in many ways it's a lousy time to be a teenager.  when asked if the next trend would be for teenagers to turn off their phones, he says it wouldn't work - the app he's creating would alert a group of parents if the children in a circle of friends all turned off their phones and would pinpoint their geographic location - ie the party's busted.  "if you want to completely disconnect and raise your children in that world you've got to go to the jungles of the amazon or something; in the world we live in today this pervasive ubiquitous technology is only going to expand," he says, adding that he doesn't want his sons raised in a bubble, but he can't ignore reality.  "this technology could save lives so i think that it's absolutely a great thing to be able to track our kids."  the chinese-language website of the tibetan government-in-exile, whose spiritual head is the dalai lama, has been hacked and infected with viruses. experts at computer security company kaspersky lab warned that the central tibetan administration (cta) site had been compromised. it is believed the malicious software could be used to spy on visitors. technical evidence suggests the hackers carried out previous cyber-attacks on human rights groups in asia. tibet.net is the official website of the cta, which is based in dharamshala, northern india. the organisation's spiritual leader is the 14th dalai lama, who fled tibet in 1959 after a failed anti-chinese uprising, and set up a government-in-exile. china considers the dalai lama a separatist threat. kaspersky says the cta website has been under constant attack from the same group of hackers since 2011, but previous breaches have been quietly identified and repaired before attracting significant attention. other tibetan organisations, such as the international campaign for tibet, have also been targeted. kaspersky lab researcher kurt baumgartner says the hackers used a method known as a "watering-hole attack". a security bug in oracle's java software might have been exploited, giving hackers a "back door" into browsers' computers.  "this is the initial foothold," mr baumgartner said. "from there they can download arbitrary files and execute them on the system."  kaspersky's education manager ram herkanaidu said the discovery of the attack came after an "email account of a prominent tibetan activist was hacked". mr herkanaidu added: "the likely actors behind the sustained campaign against tibetan sites are chinese speaking, as in many cases we have seen log files written in chinese." nearly half (46%) of british businesses discovered at least one cybersecurity breach or attack in the past year, a government survey has indicated. that proportion rose to two-thirds among medium and large companies. most often, these breaches involved fraudulent emails being sent to staff or security issues relating to viruses, spyware or malware. the survey was completed by 1,500 uk businesses and included 30 in-depth interviews. the government said a "sizeable proportion" of the businesses still did not have "basic protections" in place. while many had enacted rudimentary technical controls, only one-third had a formal policy covering cybersecurity risks. less than a third (29%) had assigned a specific board member to be responsible for cybersecurity. businesses' susceptibility to cyber-attacks was a known issue, noted prof andrew martin at the university of oxford. "a lot of businesses have responded to the problem with a box-ticking exercise or by paying an expensive consultant to make them feel better - it's far from clear that what people are doing is protecting them very well," he told the bbc. he added it remained difficult for most people to distinguish malicious emails or websites from safe ones. "it's all very well to say don't open emails from an unknown source - but most of us couldn't do business if [we] didn't do that," he added. the government's survey indicates, however, that fewer businesses in 2017 consider cybersecurity to be of "very low priority". it said 74% now agreed it was a high priority issue for senior management. 'alarming' rise in ransomware trackedcould hackers turn the lights out?how hackers handle stolen login data the report also highlighted some unusual cybersecurity cases. it said a large materials supplier for the construction industry faced "significant and ongoing" attacks, despite not having any e-commerce activities of its own. "this included over 3,000 phishing emails a month and various ransomware attacks," the report noted. phishing is a form of cyber-attack in which emails with malicious links or attachments are disguised as genuine. the most damaging case of ransomware at the firm in question caused its it team to lose "around two weeks" of productivity. since then, the business has reviewed its cybersecurity policies. company directors are the victims of one in five cases of identity fraud, according to fraud prevention organisation cifas. they account for 19% of victims of these type of fraud cases, despite making up less than 9% of the uk population. directors have been targeted directly by scams owing to the potential for con-artists to steal large sums. fraud victims are most likely to be aged between 31 and 50, cifas said. however, the biggest rise in 2016 from the previous year was among those aged 21 and under. the report, by cifas and lexisnexis risk solutions, also warned that fraudsters were attempting to obtain credit files as a pre-cursor to committing identity fraud.  some 47% of recorded identity frauds involving fraudulently obtained credit files from company directors took place in london and the south east of england. in comparison, wales and the north east of england each accounted for 2% of these fraud cases.     the vast majority of identity fraud takes place when a fraudster pretends to be an individual, so as to buy a product or take out a loan in their name.  fraudsters get hold of the necessary personal material by stealing mail, computer hacking, obtaining data on the dark web, and exploiting personal information on social media, according to cifas. they can also gather it though social engineering, where people give up personal information to someone pretending to be from their bank, the police or a retailer.  cifas advises people to shred important paper documents - and use passwords, privacy settings and anti-virus software on their computers. limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas turkish media have named 15 saudi nationals who turkish officials suspect were involved in the disappearance of jamal khashoggi, a prominent saudi journalist critical of the government who was last seen entering the saudi consulate in the city of istanbul on 2 october. most of the men flew into istanbul on two private jets hours before mr khashoggi arrived at the consulate to collect some routine paperwork, and flew back to riyadh later in the day on the same jets.  turkish officials believe the men are saudi officials and intelligence officers, an allegation that appears to be supported by open source information that is freely available. saudi authorities deny any involvement in mr khashoggi's disappearance. they insist he left the consulate soon after getting the paperwork. dr tubaigy is a forensic pathologist who completed a master's degree at the university of glasgow in scotland, and in 2015 he spent three months at the victorian institute of forensic medicine in australia.  the doctor identifies himself on his twitter account as a professor of forensic medicine and head of the saudi scientific council of forensics. the account also links to the saudi interior ministry.  in 2014 the london-based arabic newspaper asharq al-awsat said dr tubaigy was a lieutenant colonel working for the forensic science department of the interior ministry's general directorate of public security.   in an interview, accompanied by a photograph of him wearing uniform, the doctor discussed a mobile laboratory that he had designed to allow pathologists to perform post-mortems in only seven minutes in order to quickly determine the cause of death of muslims performing the hajj pilgrimage.  turkish officials have also said that dr tubaigy was carrying a bone saw when he flew into istanbul ataturk airport from riyadh at 03:13 on 2 october on a private jet with the tail number hzsk2. the jet is owned by sky prime aviation services, a company that was reportedly seized by the saudi government in an anti-corruption drive last year. dr tubaigy stayed at a mövenpick hotel istanbul, 0.5km (0.3 miles) west of the saudi consulate, and departed istanbul airport on hzsk2 at 22:54 on 2 october. the jet returned to riyadh via dubai, landing late on 3 october. unnamed turkish officials have since alleged that dr tubaigy can be heard in audio recordings from inside the consulate on the day of mr khashoggi's disappearance, when they believe the journalist was tortured, killed and dismembered by the saudi team who flew into the country.  a man identified as the doctor can be heard recommending that other people join him in listening to music on headphones while he cuts up mr khashoggi's body, according to the officials. dr tubaigy has not commented. but a man who said he was the doctor's uncle tweeted that he would never carry out "such criminal acts". mr mutreb is believed to have spent two years working at the saudi embassy in london. a document published by the british government in 2007 listed a man with that name as first secretary.  a surveillance source confirmed to the bbc his identity as "an intelligence security operative", having met him in 2011 and trained him in how to use offensive spyware technology on behalf of the saudi state. the spyware trainers nicknamed mr mutreb "dark face", the source said, "because he looked always grumpy... he was very silent." khashoggi suspect had 'cyber spy' training cnn cited a saudi source in london who knew mr mutreb as describing him as a colonel in saudi intelligence, while the popular arabic app menom3ay - which enables users to see the names people have linked to phone numbers - lists a man with that name as a colonel in the royal court.   photographs also show that he has travelled abroad with saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman on at least three occasions since march 2018, suggesting he may have had a security role.  the turkish pro-government newspaper sabah also published pictures from cctv footage that appeared to show mr mutreb entering the saudi consulate in istanbul at 09:55 on 2 october, just over three hours before the journalist arrived, and at the nearby consul-general's residence at 16:53. turkish media said mr mutreb arrived in istanbul on the private jet hzsk2 along with dr tubaigy, and also stayed at the mövenpick hotel.  he flew out of istanbul on another private jet owned by sky prime aviation with the tail number hzsk1, at 18:40 on 2 october, according to turkish media.  the new york times cited a french "professional" who had worked with the saudi royal family as identifying him as a member of the security team that travels with crown prince mohammed bin salman.  someone with the same name is also listed on menom3ay as a member of the saudi royal guard regiment. mr alhawsawi flew to istanbul on a commercial flight, going through passport control at 01:43 on 2 october.  he stayed at the wyndham grand istanbul levant hotel, about 1km (0.6 miles) south of the saudi consulate, and left istanbul on hzsk2 with dr tubaigy. last october, a man with that name serving in the royal guard was promoted to lieutenant for bravery in the defence of the crown prince's palace in jeddah. in the incident, a gunman shot dead two royal guards and wounded three others before being killed.  mr alharbi arrived in istanbul on the private jet hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he also flew out on the private jet hzsk1. a man by that name is listed on menom3ay as a member of the royal guard.  a guard wearing a badge with that name also appears to have been photographed and filmed standing next to crown prince mohammed bin salman at an event in 2007, according to the activist iyad el-baghdadi.  turkish media said mr alzahrani arrived in istanbul on a commercial flight, and that he stayed at the wyndham grand and flew out on the private jet hzsk2. but the washington post said a man who answered a call placed to the number listed on menom3ay denied being in turkey when mr khashoggi disappeared. a man by that name is identified on menom3ay with the royal guard. the washington post reports that a saudi passport held by a man with the same name was used to enter the us on trips that coincided with three visits by saudi royals. he flew to istanbul on a commercial flight and stayed at the wyndham grand. he went through passport control at istanbul airport at 20:28 before departing. a facebook account of a man with that name included photographs of someone in uniform bearing saudi special forces insignia, according to qutaibi idlbi, a saudi-born syrian entrepreneur based in washington who said he was an acquaintance of mr khashoggi mr alarifi is also listed on menom3ay as an employee of the crown prince's office. he arrived in istanbul on a commercial flight and went through passport control at 16:12. he stayed at the wyndham grand and departed on the private jet hzsk2. he is identified on menom3ay as someone who works for saudi intelligence. mr almadani arrived on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he went through passport control at istanbul airport at 00:18 on 3 october before leaving on a commercial flight. the facebook page of a man with the same name as mr albostani listed his position as a lieutenant in the saudi air force.  on menom3ay he is described as a bodyguard in the royal guard, according to mr idlbi. mr albostani went through passport control at istanbul airport at 01:45 on 2 october and stayed at the wyndham grand. he departed on the private jet hzsk2. on 18 october, the turkish pro-government newspaper yeni safak reported there were claims that mr albostani had died in a "suspicious car accident" in riyadh, but provided no details.   a man with that name serving in the saudi air force was promoted to the rank of squadron leader by the crown prince last year, according to local media.  mr alsehri flew in on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he departed on hzsk1. a man with the same name is identified on menom3ay as working for saudi intelligence, according to qutaibi idlbi.  a man by that name was also described as a colonel in the general directorate of civil defence in a 2014 article by a local newspaper.   mr abahussein arrived at istanbul airport on a commercial flight and stayed at the wyndham grand. he left on board hzsk2. a man with that name is listed on menom3ay as a member of the royal guard. mr albalawi arrived on one of the private jets and stayed at the mövenpick. he flew out on hzsk1. someone with that name is listed on menom3ay as a major in saudi intelligence, according to mr idlbi. mr alotaibi flew into istanbul on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he flew out on hzsk1. a man with his name is identified on menom3ay as working in the service of crown prince mohammed bin salman, according to the washington post.   mr alqahtani arrived in istanbul on the private jet hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he went through passport control at istanbul airport at 00:20 on 3 october before leaving on a commercial flight. he arrived on hzsk2 and stayed at the mövenpick. he left on hzsk1. germany's justice minister has called for a national and state level probe into the use of controversial computer software to spy on people.the german state of bavaria has admitted using the spyware, but claimed it had acted within the law.three other states have also confirmed they have used spyware in order to investigate serious criminal offences, a german newspaper reports.use of the software was exposed by a german hacker group.stephen evans reports. two-thirds of big uk businesses have been hit by a cyber attack in the past year, according to government research.  most of the attacks involved viruses, spyware or malware, the cyber security breaches survey says. a quarter of large firms experiencing a cyber breach did so at least once a month. digital economy minister ed vaizey said it was "absolutely crucial businesses are secure and can protect data". in some cases the internet-linked attacks cost millions of pounds. the survey's results have been released alongside the government's cyber governance health check, launched following the talktalk cyber attack in october last year. the phone and broadband provider, which has over four million uk customers, said some of their banking details and personal information could have been accessed in the breach. in light of these surveys, businesses are now being urged to protect themselves better. mr vaizey said: "the uk is a world-leading digital economy and this government has made cyber security a top priority. "too many firms are losing money, data and consumer confidence with the vast number of cyber attacks. it's absolutely crucial businesses are secure and can protect data." the survey also suggested seven out of 10 attacks could have been prevented, and added that only a fifth of businesses understand the dangers of sharing information with third parties. the government is investing £1.9bn over the next five years to tackle and prevent cyber crime, and a new national cyber security centre will offer security support. also, a national cyber security strategy will be published later this year, setting out proposals to improve online security for the government, among businesses and for consumers. a document that appears to give the most powerful insight yet into how china determined the fate of hundreds of thousands of muslims held in a network of internment camps has been seen by the bbc. listing the personal details of more than 3,000 individuals from the far western region of xinjiang, it sets out in intricate detail the most intimate aspects of their daily lives. the painstaking records - made up of 137 pages of columns and rows - include how often people pray, how they dress, whom they contact and how their family members behave. china denies any wrongdoing, saying it is combating terrorism and religious extremism. the document is said to have come, at considerable personal risk, from the same source inside xinjiang that leaked a batch of highly sensitive material published last year. one of the world's leading experts on china's policies in xinjiang, dr adrian zenz, a senior fellow at the victims of communism memorial foundation in washington, believes the latest leak is genuine. "this remarkable document presents the strongest evidence i've seen to date that beijing is actively persecuting and punishing normal practices of traditional religious beliefs," he says. one of the camps mentioned in it, the "number four training centre" has been identified by dr zenz as among those visited by the bbc as part of a tour organised by the chinese authorities in may last year. much of the evidence uncovered by the bbc team appears to be corroborated by the new document, redacted for publication to protect the privacy of those included in it. it contains details of the investigations into 311 main individuals, listing their backgrounds, religious habits, and relationships with many hundreds of relatives, neighbours and friends. verdicts written in a final column decide whether those already in internment should remain or be released, and whether some of those previously released need to return. 'i spent seven days of hell in chinese camps'the leading uighur geographer who vanished in china it is evidence that appears to directly contradict china's claim that the camps are merely schools. in an article analysing and verifying the document, dr zenz argues that it also offers a far deeper understanding of the real purpose of the system. it allows a glimpse inside the minds of those making the decisions, he says, laying bare the "ideological and administrative micromechanics" of the camps. row 598 contains the case of a 38-year-old woman with the first name helchem, sent to a re-education camp for one main reason: she was known to have worn a veil some years ago. it is just one of a number of cases of arbitrary, retrospective punishment. others were interned simply for applying for a passport - proof that even the intention to travel abroad is now seen as a sign of radicalisation in xinjiang. in row 66, a 34-year-old man with the first name memettohti was interned for precisely this reason, despite being described as posing "no practical risk". and then there's the 28-year-old man nurmemet in row 239, put into re-education for "clicking on a web-link and unintentionally landing on a foreign website". again, his case notes describe no other issues with his behaviour. the 311 main individuals listed are all from karakax county, close to the city of hotan in southern xinjiang, an area where more than 90% of the population is uighur. predominantly muslim, the uighurs are closer in appearance, language and culture to the peoples of central asia than to china's majority ethnicity, the han chinese. in recent decades the influx of millions of han settlers into xinjiang has led to rising ethnic tensions and a growing sense of economic exclusion among uighurs. those grievances have sometimes found expression in sporadic outbreaks of violence, fuelling a cycle of increasingly harsh security responses from beijing.  it is for this reason that the uighurs have become the target - along with xinjiang's other muslim minorities, like the kazakhs and kyrgyz - of the campaign of internment. the "karakax list", as dr zenz calls the document, encapsulates the way the chinese state now views almost any expression of religious belief as a signal of disloyalty. to root out that perceived disloyalty, he says, the state has had to find ways to penetrate deep into uighur homes and hearts. in early 2017, when the internment campaign began in earnest, groups of loyal communist party workers, known as "village-based work teams", began to rake through uighur society with a massive dragnet. with each member assigned a number of households, they visited, befriended and took detailed notes about the "religious atmosphere" in the homes; for example, how many korans they had or whether religious rites were observed. the karakax list appears to be the most substantial evidence of the way this detailed information gathering has been used to sweep people into the camps. it reveals, for example, how china has used the concept of "guilt by association" to incriminate and detain whole extended family networks in xinjiang. for every main individual, the 11th column of the spreadsheet is used to record their family relationships and their social circle. the long read: china's hidden campsexplainer: china's muslim 'crackdown'searching for truth in china's 're-education' campschina denies muslim children separation campaign alongside each relative or friend listed is a note of their own background; how often they pray, whether they've been interned, whether they've been abroad. in fact, the title of the document makes clear that the main individuals listed all have a relative currently living overseas - a category long seen as a key indicator of potential disloyalty, leading to almost certain internment. rows 179, 315 and 345 contain a series of assessments for a 65-year-old man, yusup. his record shows two daughters who "wore veils and burkas in 2014 and 2015", a son with islamic political leanings and a family that displays "obvious anti-han sentiment". his verdict is "continued training" - one of a number of examples of someone interned not just for their own actions and beliefs, but for those of their family. the information collected by the village teams is also fed into xinjiang's big data system, called the integrated joint operations platform (ijop). the ijop contains the region's surveillance and policing records, culled from a vast network of cameras and the intrusive mobile spyware every citizen is forced to download. the ijop, dr zenz suggests, can in turn use its ai brain to cross-reference these layers of data and send "push notifications" to the village teams to investigate a particular individual. the man found "unintentionally landing on a foreign website" may well have been interned thanks to the ijop. in many cases though, there is little need for advanced technology, with the vast and vague catch-all term "untrustworthy" appearing multiple times in the document. it is listed as the sole reason for the internment of a total of 88 individuals. the concept, dr zenz argues, is proof that the system is designed not for those who have committed a crime, but for an entire demographic viewed as potentially suspicious.  china  says xinjiang has policies that "respect and ensure people's freedom of religious belief". it also insists that what it calls a "vocational training programme in xinjiang" is "for the purposes of combating terrorism and religious extremism", adding only people who have been convicted of crimes involving terrorism or religious extremism are being "educated" in these centres. however, many of the cases in the karakax list give multiple reasons for internment; various combinations of religion, passport, family, contacts overseas or simply being untrustworthy. the most frequently listed is for violating china's strict family planning laws. in the eyes of the chinese authorities it seems, having too many children is the clearest sign that uighurs put their loyalty to culture and tradition above obedience to the secular state. china has long defended its actions in xinjiang as part of an urgent response to the threat of extremism and terrorism. the karakax list does contain some references to those kinds of crimes, with at least six entries for preparing, practicing or instigating terrorism and two cases of watching illegal videos. but the broader focus of those compiling the document appears to be faith itself, with more than 100 entries describing the "religious atmosphere" at home. the karakax list has no stamps or other authenticating marks so, at face value, it is difficult to verify. it is thought to have been passed out of xinjiang sometime before late june last year, along with a number of other sensitive papers. they ended up in the hands of an anonymous uighur exile who passed all of them on, except for this one document. only after the first batch was published last year was the karakax list then forwarded to his conduit, another uighur living in amsterdam, asiye abdulaheb. she told the bbc that she is certain it is genuine. "regardless of whether there are official stamps on the document or not, this is information about real, live people," she says. "it is private information about people that wouldn't be made public. so there is no way for the chinese government to claim it is fake." like all uighurs living overseas, ms abdulaheb lost contact with her family in xinjiang when the internment campaign began, and she's been unable to contact them since. but she says she had no choice but to release the document, passing it to a group of international media organisations, including the bbc. "of course i am worried about the safety of my relatives and friends," she says. "but if everyone keeps silent because they want to protect themselves and their families, then we will never prevent these crimes being committed." at the end of last year china announced that everyone in its "vocational training centres" had now "graduated". however, it also suggested some may stay open for new students on the basis of their "free will". almost 90% of the 311 main individuals in the karakax list are shown as having already been released or as being due for release on completion of a full year in the camps. but dr zenz points out that the re-education camps are just one part of a bigger system of internment, much of which remains hidden from the outside world. more than two dozen individuals are listed as "recommended" for release into "industrial park employment" - career "advice" that they may have little choice but to obey. there are well documented concerns that china is now building a system of coerced labour as the next phase of its plan to align uighur life with its own vision of a modern society.  in two cases, the re-education ends in the detainees being sent to "strike hard detention", a reminder that the formal prison system has been cranked into overdrive in recent years. many of the family relationships listed in the document show long prison terms for parents or siblings, sometimes for entirely normal religious observances and practices. one man's father is shown to have been sentenced to five years for "having a double-coloured thick beard and organising a religious studies group". a neighbour is reported to have been given 15 years for "online contact with people overseas", and another man's younger brother given 10 years for "storing treasonable pictures on his phone". whether or not china has closed its re-education camps in xinjiang, dr zenz says the karakax list tells us something important about the psychology of a system that prevails. "it reveals the witch-hunt-like mindset that has been and continues to dominate social life in the region," he said. one of the world's largest independent tech support firms has been accused of routinely pressuring customers into buying software they do not need. in a washington state lawsuit, indian firm iyogi is accused of using scare tactics to mislead consumers. it is also accused of falsely claiming affiliation to microsoft, apple and hp. the firm has denied the allegations, describing them as "false" and "baseless". "while we are yet to receive the complaint through formal channels, based on our assessment of media reports we would like to firmly state that the allegations are false or baseless," said iyogi's co-founder vishal dhar in a statement to the bbc. "we recognise that tech support frauds are a real issue in the us and, as a responsible industry leader, we have been working with authorities... to counter the issue." he said that his firm would "do what is necessary" to see the case through "to its rightful end". attorney general bob ferguson alleged that "hundreds, if not thousands" of washington residents had been affected by what he described as iyogi's "unfair and deceptive" tactics, which he claimed violated washington's consumer protection and computer spyware laws. he is seeking $2,000 (£1,340) in civil penalties for each violation of the consumer protection act and $100,000 per violation for the computer spyware act. microsoft's chief legal officer brad smith attended a news conference announcing the lawsuit and applauded the state for its efforts to "protect consumers from tech support scams that have reached epidemic levels in recent years". he said that his firm had received more than 180,000 customer calls regarding tech support fraud. microsoft estimates that 3.3 million americans lose about $1.5bn annually from tech support scams. such scams tended to disproportionately affect "the most vulnerable segments of our society", he said, adding that tech support scams "have become a scourge on the internet". iyogi has more than 5,000 employees based at call centres in india. it says it serves more than three million customers across 11 countries. as part of its investigation the attorney general's office (ago) alleged that iyogi used the following tactics: in online ads it associated itself with major technology companies including microsoft, apple and hp, claiming to provide tech support services on their behalf it gained remote access to consumers' computers and identified complex-looking files, which it claimed were infected and could cause harm. it then encouraged consumers to download its diagnostic software to identify further computer problems it created reports that claim that there is malware or other serious defects when in fact the identified items were often routine programs that posed no threat it offered unnecessary tech support plans that could cost about $140 per year it attempted to sell consumers anti-virus software even if they already had some installed it offered to update pcs to the windows 10 operating system, which it sold for $80, even though microsoft offers the upgrade for free the ago also offered advice to avoid tech support scams: never give control of your computer to a third party unless you can confirm it is legitimate ask if there is a fee or subscription association with the service, and if there is, hang up do not provide social security numbers, banking, credit card or other financial information protect personal computers with legitimate and updated security software iyogi was earlier this year praised by us politicians when it set up a global centre in maine, employing 300 people. at the time, maine governor paul r lepage said that it was "encouraging" that iyogi was outsourcing jobs to america. norfolk is a dating scams hotspot, surrey succumbs to investment fraud and west and mid-wales suffers cold calling computer cons, according to data from uk cyber-crime centre action fraud. consumer watchdog which? has collated the data, which came via a freedom of information request and it wants the government to do more to tackle the problem. a recent office of national statistics survey suggested there are 5.4 million fraud and computer misuse cases a year. other findings include: northamptonshire residents are most likely to report suffering online shopping and auction scams - it affected 21.6 victims per 10,000 compared to 16.9 nationally those living in dorset fall for computer virus, malware and spyware fraud with 15,561 reports from 2014 to 2016 warwickshire is a victim of retail fraud with 30,944 in the same timeframe. london is the fraud capital of a range of scams, including 16,249 reports of social media hacking which said that it could not explain why certain frauds occur more in some areas rather than others, partly because so many fraud cases go unreported so the data is incomplete. there were 264,204 frauds reported to action fraud in 2016 but this is likely to be a fraction of those that occur. which's report did suggest that certain demographics are targeted by different scams  - so, for example, fake computer fixes tend to focus on elderly women living in rural areas. members of the public can click on an interactive map to find out the most commonly occurring fraud in their county. dating fraud: the woman 'lovebombed' out of £300,000online dating fraud victim numbers at record highcompany directors targeted by identity fraudsters gareth shaw, which? money expert, thinks there is little doubt that online fraud is on the rise: "this research highlights how reported fraud in the uk is on the increase and the kinds of scams you are most likely to fall victim to will depend on where you live. "these criminals are constantly finding new ways to rip us off and those tackling fraud should be upping their game. the government needs to set out an ambitious agenda to tackle fraud, while law enforcement agencies need to be working harder to identify and protect the people most at risk from fraud."   commander dave clark, city of london police, national co-ordinator for economic crime said: "fraud and cyber crime are global problems with many of the offenders targeting uk citizens from overseas," "law enforcement is not the single solution to this phenomenon. the solution requires every individual, business and organisation to take responsibility to ensure they take steps to protect themselves and others." a former ukip mep on trial for alleged fraud had a poor relationship with leader nigel farage, a former aide told a court. john ison said he gave updates about nikki sinclaire at least once a week to mr farage "to protect the party". her defence claims he spied on her to ingratiate himself with ukip leaders. ms sinclaire, who denies misconduct in public office between 1 october 2009 and 31 july 2010, while a serving mep, is on trial at birmingham crown court. she also denies claims that between 14 october 2009 and 31 december 2010 she fraudulently transferred criminal property into her bank account. the court heard from barrister sean hammond, representing ms sinclaire, that there was a "background of hostility" between his client and mr farage. the defence said mr ison was treated by ms sinclaire as a "confidant" when she was trying to gain entry to the party's national executive committee in 2010, shortly after having lost the party whip. however, the court was told mr ison worked to "undermine" her, then sought to exploit confusion over the european expenses system as a back-up tactic. mr ison denied the claims. the defence also presented a text from mr ison to party colleague steve morson from january 2010 claiming to have "captured" data from ms sinclaire's laptop, alleging he had hacked her computer and installed spyware to gain information. during proceedings mr ison admitted sending the message to mr morson, but used his right not to incriminate himself by declining to answer whether he had breached the computer misuse act, when asked by mr hammond if he was behaving like "a spy or a mole", mr ison replied: "if you want to put it that way." he admitted the message "looked very bad" but denied wrongdoing. ms sinclaire, 47, of shirley in solihull, was west midlands mep until 2014. she is currently on bail and is expected to give evidence next week. the trial continues.  a man who allegedly created malware purporting to catch out cheating lovers has made it on to the fbi's "most wanted" list of cybercriminals. the fbi says carlos enrique perez-melara ran a website offering customers a way to "catch a cheating lover" by sending spyware masquerading as a greeting card. opening the card downloaded the malware on to the recipient's computer and recorded keystrokes and messages. the "lover spy" program cost $89 (£55). mr perez-melara was indicted in july 2005 but has avoided capture ever since, only now making it on to the fbi's most wanted list. he ran the operation from his san diego home in 2003, the fbi says, while he was in the us on a student travel visa. the charges against mr perez-melara, 33, included making, sending and advertising an interception device, and unlawfully intercepting electronic communications. the indictment said lover spy was designed "with stealth in mind, claiming that it would be impossible to detect by 99.9% of users".  but mr perez-melara has avoided the authorities ever since and his last known location was san salvador, the fbi said. the agency appears to have added the hacker to its list partly out of frustration at his elusiveness.  "these are sophisticated folks who know how to hide themselves on the internet,'' said john brown, who oversees the fbi's cyber-division. the agency has offered a $50,000 reward for information leading to his arrest.  according to the 2005 indictment, mr perez-melara sold the malware to 1,000 customers, who then used it to infect the computers of about 2,000 victims.  victims took the bait about half the time, the government said.  people who bought the spyware were charged with illegally intercepting electronic communications. online poker players are being targeted by a computer virus that spies on their virtual cards. the software shares the cards with the virus's creators who then join the same game and try to fleece the victim. the sneaky malware has been found lurking in software designed to help poker fans play better, said the security firm that found it. the software also targets other useful information on a victim's computer such as login names and passwords. the malware targets players of the pokerstars and full tilt poker sites, said robert lipovsky, a security researcher at eset, in a blogpost.  when it infects a machine, the software monitors the pc's activity and springs to life when a victim has logged in to either one of the two poker sites. it then starts taking screenshots of their activity and the cards they are dealt. screenshots are then sent to the attacker. the images show the hand the player has been dealt as well as their player id. this, said eset, allows the attacker to search the sites for that player and join their game. using information about a victim's hand gives the attacker a significant advantage. "we are unsure whether the perpetrator plays the games manually or in some automated way," wrote mr lipovsky. eset found the windows malware lurking in some well-known file-sharing applications, pc utilities as well as several widely used poker calculators and player databases. eset said the spyware had been active for several months and most victims were in eastern europe, particularly russia and the ukraine. groups of pro-assad hackers are using social media and the lure of disturbing online videos to hack into the computers of rival groups in syria. last year, the syrian electronic army rose to prominence when they hacked into news websites and twitter accounts run by the bbc, cbs, and other high profile media organisations. now the group appears to be using "social engineering tricks" - offering content that typically goes viral on social media - to install spyware on computers belonging to those who oppose the assad regime. and they appear to be working. internet security firm kaspersky estimates the malicious software has been downloaded around 10,000 times. one of the tricks involves promoting videos claiming to be of victims injured in recent attacks by the assad regime. when attempting to download the clips from file sharing sites, rogue software is downloaded as well, which could give hackers access to the computer. if successful, they can record keystrokes, obtain passwords, and record online phone calls. another piece of bait used is a letter which purports to be between syrian military units detailing forthcoming chemical attacks. other methods include posting messages on facebook encouraging users to protect themselves from government attacks by installing "ammazon internet security" software - a fake anti-virus programme designed to compromise the user's machine. david emm works for kaspersky lab, an internet security firm that produced a report about the attacks.  "it's social engineering. it's aimed at people who would be shocked or angered by what's been posted," he tells bbc trending. although it is impossible to be certain they are the work of the syrian electronic army, there are clues that suggest they are involved. as well as the nature of the content itself, the spyware is passing information back to a server with an ip address provided by the tarassul, as isp associated with the syrian government. once infiltrated, the machines can be used to collect intelligence, and disrupt opposition networks. emm says the attacks are likely to become both more prolific and more sophisticated as the conflict continues. social networks have played a huge role in the syrian conflict to date. government regulated news broadcasts have pushed many people online in a search for more information. social media has been used for everything from breaking news, to documenting battles, and fundraising for opposition forces. reporting by sam judah have you subscribed the bbc trending podcast? you can do so here via itunes or here all our stories are at bbc.com/trending what do we know about the curious, secretive nso group? very little - but after this week, an awful lot more than we did before. the group, an israeli-based but american-owned company, specialises in creating what it calls tools against crime and terrorism. but the security researchers call them something else: a cyber arms dealer. on thursday, the nso group was thrust into international headlines after being credited with creating malicious software capable of "jailbreaking" any iphone with just one tap of the screen, and then installing vicious spyware. founded in 2010 and has had several different namesbased in herzliya, israel, and owned by us investment firm francisco partnerscould be worth $1bn security-savvy human rights lawyer ahmed mansoor found himself targeted by the attack when his iphone received a message promising "secrets" about torture happening in prisons in the united arab emirates.  had he tapped on the link, the phone would have been plundered. huge amounts of private data: text messages, photos, emails, location data, even what’s being picked up by the device’s microphone and camera. thankfully, he didn't do that. instead, he passed on the message to experts at citizen lab and lookout, who peeled back the covers on what they described as one of the most sophisticated cyber weapons ever discovered. with it came evidence that it was the nso group’s expertise at the heart of it all. earlier this year, uk-based watchdog privacy international launched a database tracking the global trade of cyber arms. its intention was to track deals between cyber arms companies and governments. according to the surveillance industry index (sii), the nso group was founded in 2010 and is based in herzliya, an attractive city north of tel aviv that is known as being a cluster of tech start-ups. the group was likely funded by the elite 8200 intelligence unit, an israeli military-funded scheme for start-ups.  according to forbes, the 8200 intelligence unit was heavily involved in providing expertise and funding for stuxnet, a cyber attack on iran that was a joint operation between the us and israel.  listed in the ssi were multi-million dollar deals made between the nso group and government entities in mexico and panama. this is the tip of the iceberg -  press reports of sales rely on leaks and anonymous sources, and so there are likely many more unknown to the general public.  in 2015, the nso group’s owners -  us-based venture capital firm francisco partners  - were looking to sell the company at a value of around $1bn. neither firm has responded to the bbc’s requests for further comment. that the nso group sells tools to governments is no secret  -  in a statement released in response to claims it was behind the attack on mr mansoor, nso group spokesman zamir dahbash said: "the company sells only to authorized governmental agencies, and fully complies with strict export control laws and regulations." but the company has gone no further than that in describing who its customers are, and what exactly they buy. it does say it has no control over how its tools are used and for what purpose. whatever the origin of the nso group, what has been created is an extraordinarily talented team of cyber specialists. the attack on mr mansoor, had it worked, would have utilised not one but three zero day attacks. a "zero day" is a term given to vulnerabilities that were previously unknown to the security industry, and are therefore wide open to attack. to discover one zero day is rare, to find three is outstanding. clues to the origin of the attack came when the experts looked at the messages mr mansoor received. a link was included to a web domain known to point to servers set up by the nso group for its customers. when the researchers analysed the spyware’s code, they noticed apparent references to "pegasus", the name given, by the nso group, to one of its spying products. details about pegasus were made public last year when another cyber arms firm, called the hacking team, was itself breached. material used to market pegasus was subsequently leaked.  when apple was made aware of the vulnerabilities in its iphone, it acted quickly, patching the problem in 10 days and pushing out an update to all of its users. that has neutralised this specific attack, sure, but there'll likely be many more that remain hidden from view.  in a rare interview with defense news, the nso group’s co-founder, omri lavie, said their attacks would "leave no trace".  thanks to the quick thinking of mr mansoor, and the forensic efforts of researchers, the group has been temporarily dragged into the limelight - but it will only be for a brief moment. soon the nso group  will rejoin the rest of the money-spinning cyber arms trade back in the shadows. follow dave lee on twitter @daveleebbc and on facebook an employee of south korea's national intelligence service (nis) spying agency has been found dead in his car after apparently taking his own life on a mountain road, police say. his death comes as a scandal over phone-hacking gathers pace.  the man left a suicide note admitting that he had deleted important information about the hacking. it has emerged that mobile phones were tracked and monitored just before the presidential election in 2012. government and nis officials have denied opposition claims that the spyware - bought from an italian company - was used to monitor south koreans in general. they insist that its purpose was to boost the country's cyber-warfare capabilities against north korea.  the bbc's stephen evans, in south korea, says that the note left by the dead man implies that phones were monitored only to keep tabs on people connected to north korea and not to besmirch opponents of the right-of-centre president. the spy agency had a scandalous reputation in the years before south korea embraced democracy in the 1980s, and was involved in abductions and killings. the modern nis is not accused of such serious offences but has nevertheless been embroiled in several scandals, including election meddling. opposition politicians allege that it is not politically neutral, breaks the law and is a political tool for sitting presidents. last week the supreme court ordered a review of the conviction of former nis head won sei-hoon, who was sentenced to three years in jail in february for trying to influence the results of the 2012 presidential election. katie price, jude law and victoria beckham are the three most dangerous celebrities to search for online. internet researchers claim more than 16% of links related to the subject of katie price were found to contain dodgy viruses. links and sites related to kate moss, david beckham, daniel radcliffe, kerry katona, amy winehouse, cheryl cole and leona lewis made up the rest of the top 10. websites can be compromised by being loaded with spyware that collects information about users without their knowledge, and viruses that can infiltrate computers. computer protection firm mcafee looked at popular search engines like google and yahoo! and weighed up the risk of clicking on celebrity-related website links. security analyst greg day said: "cybercrooks capitalising on the public obsession with celebrities and current events is nothing new. "a quick flick across the front pages of the latest popular newspapers and magazines offers a fairly reliable snapshot of where the criminals will focus their efforts next." i now pronounce you chuck and larry actress jessica biel was found to be the riskiest us celebrity target. the markets have not been moved much by theresa may's tears, because they don't see her resignation changing much, or reducing the levels of uncertainty around brexit. a rift has opened up between tories and former friends in business. business lobbies are calling ever more forcefully for westminster to sort out brexit while avoiding a 'no deal' departure.the report card on the may premiership has some changes to economic policy, but her fall opens the way for a bigger change, on the conservative approach to immigration. when a corporate chief executive quits, it's sometimes worth a look at the share price. a sharp rise suggests that the boss was holding back the company, and an exit was overdue: a fall indicates that investors saw the boss's presence as an important part of its future. so how did the market react to theresa may's announcement? by doing nothing much. the pound weakened 0.25% against the us dollar. the ftse250 edged up.   that is partly because investors had already priced in her departure. they could see she wasn't going to cut a deal that got the government through brexit, so assumed she would be resigning before long. and with her gone, they can also see - as we all can - that there's little alternative route out of the political impasse under any other conservative prime minister. meanwhile, there are other factors at play in the markets which give a better explanation of recent fluctuations, including the ramping up of a trans-pacific trade war between the us and china. just ahead of the announcement, the latest retail figures were issued by the office for national statistics, showing the volume of goods sold up by 5.2% year on year. the value was flat, after a very strong first quarter. add to that an unemployment rate at a 44-year low, and employment at record levels, and you can see the economic record while theresa may was in downing street wasn't so bad at all. if she had focused on that, there might have been a less tearful conclusion to her time in office. but the economy was never, personally, her main interest or strong point. it was a factor within the overarching determination to push through brexit, but it was treated as if it were dispensable or an after-thought. for some, it could be compromised in the endeavour to placate those who saw the return of sovereignty as being of more value than the diminished growth rate which most economists reckon would follow. in the turmoil within her cabinet, it was left to the minority of ministers with economic portfolios to remind colleagues of the potential damage to businesses and the economy. phillip hammond, as chancellor of the exchequer, and greg clark as business secretary, often cut lonely figures in making that case. under may's leadership, a gulf opened up between the conservatives and big business, which has been causing alarm to both sides of that relationship. business lobbies have become increasingly frustrated that the internal conservative debate about brexit has been carried on with little reference to their warnings, which have been particularly strong about the potential damage of "no deal". when the cbi director-general visited edinburgh recently, for a lunch with members, the guest speaker was due to be labour shadow chancellor john mcdonnell. he didn't make it to the scottish capital due to the (doomed) brexit talks with the government. but the invitation was a sign that the business lobby is turning its attention (with quite a lot of alarm) to the prospect of jeremy corbyn and labour taking power. the common message to all those reacting to the therexit of mrs may is that it doesn't change the arithmetic or provide a solution. indeed, it prolongs the uncertainty, and introduces the risk of a harder-line brexiteer pushing for departure without a deal. the institute of directors, with a gently mocking tone, repeats the prime minister's words when she had a botched double launch of her long term care policy during that disastrous election campaign in 2017. "nothing has changed," says the iod boss. "at least not much. a new leader will be faced with the same political challenges and the same economic realities. no deal remains a significant and growing concern for businesses and that cannot be wished away, whoever is in power. "when companies and the country need serious, considered decision-making, we have pantomime instead." according to carolyn fairbairn, director-general of the cbi, theresa may "leaves office with the respect of business".  "but her resignation must be now be a catalyst for change," she added. "there can be no plan for britain without a plan for brexit.  "winner takes all politics is not working. jobs and livelihoods are at stake. business and the country need honesty. nation must be put ahead of party, prosperity ahead of politics. compromise and consensus must re-find their voice in parliament". a similar message came from liz cameron at the scottish chambers of commerce: "we now urge political leaders to put country before personal ambitions, to ensure focus remains on solving the brexit riddle.  "westminster has already squandered far too much time going around in circles. they must realise that lack of direction has real-world economic consequences, causing the collapse of business confidence, which has a deleterious impact on investments and jobs." some changes to economic policy under theresa may's premiership are worth noting. she pulled back on george osborne's focus on the northern powerhouse in the north of england. an industrial policy was being developed.   the government dolloped money into growth sectors where it saw strategic interest. but this was submerged by the battle to protect sectors, such as car-making and steel, that are particularly vulnerable to brexit disruption. and in recent weeks, the need to open trade out beyond the european union tripped up over the pacific trade war.  the downing street cabinet was split between welcoming chinese telecoms technology (the prime minister's preference), and supporting the american case that huawei carries too much potential as spyware. being a much smaller trading power than the eu, and with trade deals to be done, expect more similar dilemmas. as chancellor, phillip hammond dialled back on the austerity rhetoric, and pushed back his predecessor's target date for reaching a surplus.  while the whitehall welfare budget continued to see big cuts, the biggest of them through the freeze on working-age benefits, the flow of funds to the national health service was increased. and what of the future? apart from the dominant question of brexit, and how to make it happen, the next conservative leader will have the opportunity to re-shuffle the cabinet, putting different people into the economic ministries, and shifting economic policy. my hunch is that there won't be enormous change, because there isn't the time, government headspace or political capital to do much beyond brexit. but one factor to watch is immigration. theresa may has had a stranglehold on immigration policy for nine years since she became home secretary. it was on that that she placed her reputation for toughness. she gave us the policy of making a "hostile environment" for those facing deportation, meanwhile blundering into the windrush fiasco, of excluding long-time residents of the uk who had been invited 60 years ago from the caribbean to fill labour market gaps. mrs may shut out new thinking about how to handle immigration. behind the leave majority, it played a significant part. even for the six years before that vote, her response to public opinion about it was to set an unrealistic target for reducing net migration to below 100,000 and then to stick to it, while deaf to unintended consequences - for instance, on overseas student recruitment. the rest of the cabinet has sometimes been infuriated by mrs may's intransigence on this when she was home secretary. now in that role, sajid javid doesn't much care for the sub-100,000 target. in launching a consultation on post-brexit immigration, he quietly dropped it. that consultation features the question of what salary level should be set for an eu or non-eu national to get a work permit in britain. the proposed level is £30,000, which business groups say is far too high to recruit the skilled staff they need in more junior roles. the next tory leader and prime minister is likely to want to take a more flexible approach than theresa may. in scotland, such a change would be welcomed across holyrood's political spectrum, and by business lobbies. as 2019 splutters to a close, it's time for our annual lookback at our most-read tech stories, and to ask: "what happened next?". facebook and its family of apps dominates this year's list with four entries - it  probably won't be a surprise that none of them were particularly brand-enhancing.  the chinese viral video app tiktok makes the cut for the first time. and many of the other "big tech" names are there too in one form or another. but there are a few notable exceptions. neither elon musk nor tesla made it, despite the window-smashing launch of the cybertruck and plans to hack our brains. google's co-founders were originally on the list after deciding to give up day-to-day control of their empire, but were squeezed out just before publication. video gaming also missed out, even though prince harry attracted lots of attention for suggesting fortnite should be banned. and both huawei and samsung are absent, even though the former's loss of google's apps and the latter's folding phone fiasco were two of the year's standout developments. in any case, here's what attracted most eyeballs in each month of the year: january: when three becomes one a leak forced facebook to reveal plans to merge the behind-the-scenes tech of messaging on whatsapp, messenger and instagram. the effort was reported to be a pet project of chief executive mark zuckerberg.  he later justified the move saying it would draw the three products closer together, making it easier for users to send posts between them. furthermore, he said it would also help the firm expand its end-to-end encryption features, which help keep the messages secure.  many observers noted, however, the action would also make it more difficult to split the company apart. and as the year went on that became a growing threat, with first senator elizabeth warren and then other democratic presidential candidates suggesting facebook has too much power and influence. but it may not take a change of administration for mr zuckerberg's ambitions to be thwarted. the wall street journal recently reported that the federal trade commission may intervene to prevent the apps being integrated. february: don't be scared social media, the mainstream news and even the police all got in a tizzy over momo for no good reason in february. it was claimed that youngsters' social media accounts were being "hacked" to show the bulging-eyed monster alongside "challenges" that would put their lives at risk.  online articles followed, linking more than 100 teenagers' deaths in russia to the sensation. except, of course, there was no evidence to back up any of this.  this was not even the first time an image of the japanese bird-woman sculpture had gone viral. there had been a similar smaller-scale scare in 2018 when the "game" had been linked to deaths in south america and india - again without any documented proof.  pundits described it as a "panic [that] won't go away". except it did.  these days a search for momo on twitter turns up ads for masks of the ghoul, but little else.  and on tiktok the hashtag #momochallenge surfaces videos of people cooking and eating small dumplings that go by the same name in parts of asia. march: turn it off and on again facebook's family of apps experienced 14 hours of disruption, in what was billed as their "most severe outage" to date.  in many cases, users were unable to access the services at all over the period. and it took the firm about another 10 hours to give itself the all-clear, at which point it tweeted that a "server configuration change" had been to blame.  that allowed it to deny suggestions that it had been hacked, while remaining suitably vague about the actual cause. april: how did they get in? cyber-security experts despaired after a study indicated that the most popular online password was "123456".  the uk's national cyber security centre's finding came with a warning that the string of digits is not only easy to guess, but would be one of the first codes tested by automated hacking tools.  the public is advised to instead register a different complex login for each service they join, and use a password manager. but the hassle involved in having to copy and paste them in each time, has encouraged the adoption of biometric tests that automate the process if users pass a face, eyes or fingerprint id check. another alternative is to log in via another platform and let it do the heavy lifting. and in september, apple joined the party when it allowed users to access third-party apps via a new sign in with apple button, mirroring earlier efforts by google, facebook and twitter. may: whatsapp cracked when whatsapp confirmed that a vulnerability in its app had been exploited to install surveillance software on victims' phones, one of the immediate questions was how widespread the attack had been.  it took until october to get some clarification, at which point facebook said it believed about 1,400 of its users had been directly compromised. it added that they included "at least 100 human rights defenders, journalists and other members of civil society" across at least 20 countries.  the tech firm alleges nso group, an israeli private security firm, is responsible and is currently suing it in the us courts. nso disputes the claim and has said it will "vigorously fight" the case.  whatever the outcome, the affair highlighted that if an attacker can load spyware onto a target's phone or other device, end-to-end encryption and other security measures may be in vain. june: the death of etika brooklyn-based desmond "etika" amofah had a large online following, thanks to his quick wit and nintendo video-game reaction videos on youtube and twitch. but in mid-june he caused concern when he posted a clip in which he discussed suicide. days later the new york city police department confirmed he had killed himself.  several of his friends and colleagues have since taken steps to memorialise him. an online store sells goods branded with his logo, and donates its profits to the national alliance on mental illness. youtuber pewdiepie also teamed up with actor jack black to raise further funds for the charity in etika's name.  others have marked the tragedy by getting themed tattoos. a still active twitter account - @etika - was created to keep his memory alive. and last month, a large mural was unveiled in brooklyn featuring the gamer's face alongside a pair of nintendo switch controllers.  most recently, youtube faced complaints for not referencing the late creator in its rewind recap of the year. "no one should be surprised that youtube still doesn't understand its platform," posted one frustrated user.  in any case, etika's claim in his final video that "this world's gonna forget me" shows no sign of coming true any time soon. if you've been affected by a mental health issue, help and support is available. visit bbc action line for more information about support services. july: photo glitches further technical problems at facebook hq prevented users being able to upload new photos and videos to its apps, and in some cases prevented existing ones being viewable. the disruption lasted for about nine hours.  facebook never really explained the cause, beyond saying it had been triggered by a maintenance operation. other smaller glitches persisted throughout the year, including intermittent outages in the us on thanksgiving. but given that it now serves more than 2.4 billion users who log into at least one of its services once a month, it is a considerable feat of engineering to keep everything ticking along. august: iphone booby traps studies indicate that apple's mobile devices face fewer serious cyber-security threats than android-powered equivalents. so when google revealed that hackers were using booby-trapped websites to exploit previously unidentified flaws in ios, potentially affecting "thousands of visitors per week", it was big news.  google added that compromised handsets made it possible for the perpetrators to steal private messages, photos and location data in real-time. for days there was speculation about who might have been exposed. apple eventually released a statement saying it believed that fewer than a dozen websites focused on "content related to the uighur community" had been affected. many took this to suggest that the chinese state was involved. however, apple did not explicitly draw this conclusion itself, which was unsurprising given its ties to the country. this was not apple's only uighur-related controversy this year. the campaign group sum of us has repeatedly claimed that the firm's willingness to comply with a chinese ban on virtual private network (vpn) apps has made it harder for civil rights defenders to safely discuss claims of abuses against the ethnic minority. the organisation now plans to raise the matter at apple's next annual shareholders' meeting.  september: more cameras the iphone 11 range got more cameras, longer-lasting batteries and a new "pro" moniker for the top-of-the-range models. but there was no 5g - despite samsung, huawei and other rivals having already launched compatible smartphones. and whispers that apple chief executive tim cook might be ready to unveil an augmented reality headset accessory, proved to be unfounded.  market watchers have since reported the iphones sold better than they expected - particularly in the us and western europe. and there is now talk of 2020 being the year of an "iphone supercycle" thanks to an expected revamped design along with the introduction of 5g. october: jedi wars amazon - and many outsiders - thought it had the strongest bid for a high-profile contract to provide the pentagon with cloud computing and artificial intelligence services. so there were shockwaves when satya nadella's microsoft clinched the so-called jedi deal instead. it could be worth as much as $10bn (£7.7bn) over time. not only was this a big sum to miss out on, but microsoft's marketing team should also find it easier to pitch the firm's azure services to other government departments and private companies as a consequence. this could put amazon web services' current status as the market leader under strain. amazon is challenging the award, claiming that president trump pressured the department of defense into rejecting its bid because of a personal vendetta against its chief executive jeff bezos. all of this could all have ramifications for the 2020 presidential election. regulation of big tech is already on the agenda, and amazon could make a tempting target for mr trump during the campaign. but if mr bezos believes the republican leader's re-election could threaten his business, his status as one of the world's richest men and the owner of the washington post could make him a formidable foe. november: the eyes have it at the start of the year, tiktok was fairly obscure beyond its core teenage audience. these days it is one of the most talked about apps. it has launched one meme after another, and earned a reputation as being one of the most joyous places to be on the internet. but there are also concerns about it being chinese-owned. matters came to a head last month when an american teenager posted a video that started off like an eyelash beauty tutorial. but creator feroza aziz quickly changed tack to criticise china's treatment of the uighurs. her clip went viral. shortly afterwards, the 17-year-old discovered she had been blocked from posting new material. and soon after that, tiktok took the clip offline. then the social network reversed course. it put back the clip, blaming the removal on a "human moderation error". and it re-established ms aziz's access, saying that she had been locked out because of unrelated past behaviour.  the app insisted that there had been no attempt to suppress criticism of the chinese government's actions, but ms aziz was not convinced. she has continued to flag concern about the uighurs. and in her latest "skin care" video also raises awareness about india's controversial citizenship law, which offers illegal immigrants from nearby countries amnesty but only if they are non-muslims - something she claims is "immoral". for whatever reason, the post has attracted far more views on twitter and instagram than the copy posted to tiktok. meanwhile, tiktok bosses are reportedly looking for a new global headquarters outside of china to help reinforce their claims to autonomy. but the app's owner bytedance has denied rumours that it might sell off the division to give it true independence. december: age of the splinternet? it's been a long while since the internet was a free-for-all, in which governments had little ability to restrict what their citizens did online. even so, russia's announcement that it had successfully tested what it terms a "sovereign internet" still felt like a significant moment. the initiative involves forcing all web traffic through special nodes - a term for network connection points - where content can be filtered to remove what is deemed to be risky material. furthermore, the intention is that in an "emergency" all data from outside the country could be blocked and the runet - a term for the russian internet - isolated. the achievement is described in the state media as a way to protect domestic companies and government bodies from cyber-attacks. but human rights campaigners warn that once the effort is up and running, the kremlin may also use it to limit russian people's access to "undesirable" information. in doing so, the russian government would be following the path of its counterparts in china, saudi arabia and iran, which all censor dissenting voices.  and it would be following a wider trend. the us-based freedom house digital rights group has warned that global internet freedom declined for a ninth consecutive year in 2019. beyond russia, it highlighted kazakhstan, sudan and brazil as examples of places where digital surveillance, targeted cyber-attacks and/or online disinformation campaigns were cause for concern. we should hear more about russia's effort once president putin has had a chance to examine the results of the tests, and decides how to proceed. for now, a kremlin spokesman has denied it has any intention of "cutting the internet" up into separate parts. nearly a quarter of identity fraud victims in the uk last year were tech-savvy mobile and social media users, according to a credit checking service. experian identified the group, which only made up 8% of the population, as suffering the biggest rise in id theft. there was a 17% rise in victims among this group compared with 2014. the analysis comes shortly after fraud prevention service cifas said facebook, twitter and linkedin had become a "hunting ground" for identity thieves. experian said those on social media should be cautious about the information they shared, especially if details such as their pets' names were used as passwords elsewhere on the web. "it is vital that those embracing technology also embrace protecting themselves online.  using the latest device doesn't necessarily mean full protection and being complacent about the risk of id theft makes for a tempting target for id fraudsters," said nick mothershaw, a fraud expert from experian. the next biggest rise in identity theft was among older and retired households, predominantly living in rural communities. "these people are being targeted through phone and email scams by fraudsters trying to steal their details," said mr mothershaw.  "they tend to be less aware of the types of scams fraudsters undertake, who can be very manipulative and sound trustworthy on the phone. the sole rule is to never give out personal details, passwords or pins to anyone, whether it is on the phone or by email." a report published earlier this year estimated the annual cost of fraud in the uk was £193bn - equal to nearly £3,000 per head of population. be wary of publishing any identifying information about yourself - either in your profile or in your posts - such as phone numbers, pictures of your home, workplace or school, your address or birthdayuse the privacy features to restrict strangers' access to your profile. be on your guard against "phishing" scams, including fake friend requests and posts from individuals or companies inviting you to visit other pages or sitesbe aware of what friends post about you, or reply to your posts, particularly about your personal details and activitiespick a user name that does not include any personal information. for example, "joe_glasgow" or "jane_liverpool" would be bad choicesuse strong passwords. do not use the same password or pin for more than one account, and do not use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passwordupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes. up to 80% of cyber-threats can be removed by doing this source: cifas and get safe online how do you avoid being scammed? unmasking the fraudsters a sophisticated form of malware known as project sauron went undetected for five years at a string of organisations, according to security researchers. the malware may have been designed by a state-sponsored group. it can disguise itself as benign files and does not operate in predictable ways, making it harder to detect. experts from kaspersky lab and symantec said it allows the attacker to spy on infected computers. in september last year, kaspersky first detected the malware on an unspecified "government organisation" network. since then, the firm claims to have found evidence of project sauron at more than 30 organisations in russia, iran and rwanda. these were generally government, scientific, military, telecoms and financial organisations, according to kaspersky. separately, symantec said it had found the malware in other countries, including at an airline in china and an embassy in belgium. project sauron is able to disguise itself in a wide variety of ways - as files with names similar to those published by organisations like microsoft, for example, and does not always use the same methods for sending data back to the attacker. "the attackers clearly understand that we as researchers are always looking for patterns," the company notes in its report. "remove the patterns and the operation will be harder to discover." the malware can steal files, log all keystrokes and open a "back door" allowing wide-ranging access to the compromised computer, according to symantec. project sauron did not share any code with other known examples of similarly powerful malware, said kaspersky's director of threat research costin raiu. "it really stands out by itself as something very, very sophisticated," he told the bbc. mr raiu also pointed out that two of the malware's victims had been infected with other highly sophisticated malicious programs. one victim was found to have regin spyware on their systems, for example. "this would suggest that the actor behind project sauron is perhaps different," suggested mr raiu. one aspect of project sauron that demonstrates the malware's sophistication is its ability to steal sensitive data - such as encryption keys - from computers that are not actually connected to the internet. this is known as "jumping the air-gap". for this, project sauron relies on an infected usb drive being inserted into the target computer. a hidden cache of files on the drive is then able to deposit malware on to that pc. it is not yet clear how the attackers would have used this method to control an air-gapped computer, but they believe it might have been via a "zero day" - previously undetected - exploit that they have not yet found. "we believe it was probably deployed in rare, hard-to-catch instances," notes the kaspersky report. project sauron is characteristic of state-sponsored style malware, according to cybersecurity expert graham cluley. "these are very stealthy, insidious attacks that can lurk in the background for years gathering information," he told the bbc. "we have seen the steady progression and evolution of these sorts of attacks. as governments try to protect themselves and get clued up, it is essentially an arms race." two individuals associated with the leak of ashley madison customer details are reported to have taken their lives, according to police in canada. the police in toronto gave no further information about the deaths. ashley madison's canadian parent company avid life media is offering a c$500,000 (£240,000) reward for information on the hackers, they added. details of more than 33m accounts were stolen from the website, which offers users the chance to have an affair. addressing the hackers, known as the impact team, acting staff superintendent bryce evans of the toronto police said: "i want to make it very clear to you your actions are illegal and we will not be tolerating them. this is your wake-up call." police are seeking information from members of the wider hacker community that might aid their investigation. the breach was "very sophisticated", said detective menard from the technological crime unit of toronto police. mr evans confirmed that credit card data was included in the original data dump released by the impact team. he said that investigators believed this was limited to the last four digits of the main card number.  consequently, police are advising victims of the hack to review their accounts. he also explained that the hack had already led to a series of "spin-offs of crimes and further victimisation". "criminals have already engaged in online scams by claiming to provide access to the leaked websites," he said.  "the public needs to be aware that by clicking on these links you are exposing your computers to malware, spyware, adware and viruses." the unfolding of the hack was also detailed at the conference - from the moment on 12 july when several avid life media employees logged in to their computers and were confronted by a message from the hackers. this message was accompanied by music - ac/dc's "thunderstruck", said mr evans. "this hack is one of the largest data breaches in the world and is very unique on its own in that it exposed tens of millions of people's personal information," he added. police have set up a twitter account, @amcasetps, and hashtag, #amcasetps, in a bid to gather information about the hack from members of the public. in a statement, avid life media confirmed the offer of a financial reward for information and it believed the investigation was proceeding positively. "we are confident that the considerable investigative and prosecutorial power that is being brought to bear on this unprecedented crime will lead to arrests and convictions," the firm said. the number of victims of identity theft rose by 57% last year, figures from fraud prevention service cifas suggest. the data, taken from 261 companies in the uk, suggests fraudsters are increasingly getting people's personal information from social media sites. cifas said facebook, twitter and linkedin had become a "hunting ground" for identity thieves.  it said there were more than 148,000 victims in the uk in 2015 compared with 94,500 in 2014. a small percentage of cases involved fictitious identities but most fraudsters assumed the identity of a real person after accessing their name, date of birth, address and bank details. more than 85% of the frauds were carried out online. some personal details were found by hacking computers but increasingly fraudsters used social media to put together the pieces of someone's identity, cifas said.  it urged people to check their privacy settings and think carefully about what information they share online. how do you avoid being scammed? unmasking the fraudsters the curious case of leah palmer the get safe online campaign warns people not to give away details such as phone numbers, addresses or date of birth, or pictures of their home, workplace or school, in either profile information or posts. often victims did not even realise they had been targeted until a bill arrived for something they did not buy or they experienced problems with their credit rating, the fraud prevention service added. be wary of publishing any identifying information about yourself - either in your profile or in your posts - such as phone numbers, pictures of your home, workplace or school, your address or birthdayuse the privacy features to restrict strangers' access to your profile. be on your guard against "phishing" scams, including fake friend requests and posts from individuals or companies inviting you to visit other pages or sitesbe aware of what friends post about you, or reply to your posts, particularly about your personal details and activitiespick a user name that does not include any personal information. for example, "joe_glasgow" or "jane_liverpool" would be bad choicesuse strong passwords. do not use the same password or pin for more than one account, and do not use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passwordupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing this source: cifas and get safe online a report out earlier this year estimated the annual cost of fraud in the uk was £193bn - equal to nearly £3,000 per head of population. business fraud accounted for £144bn, the study said, while fraud against individuals was estimated at £9.7bn. simon dukes, cifas chief executive, said: "fraudsters are opportunists. as banks and lenders have become more adept at detecting false identities, fraudsters have focused on stealing and using genuine people's details instead.  "society, government and industry all have a role in preventing fraud. however, our concern is that the lack of awareness about identity fraud is making it even easier for fraudsters to obtain the information they need.  "the likes of facebook, twitter, linkedin and other online platforms are much more than just social media sites - they are now a hunting ground for identity thieves.  "we are urging people to check their privacy settings today and think twice about what they share. to a fraudster, the information we put online is a goldmine." could your children be your weak link when it comes to home security? one of mine almost was thanks to minecraft. one of my boys wanted to install a mod for it and needed me to approve it. and as i am paranoid about what runs on our main computer, i oversaw the whole process. at first, it all looked fine.  there are thousands of mods or add-ons for minecraft that make a variety of changes to the game. some add new blocks, others change the way it looks and some turn it into an entirely different game.  the one he wanted was hard to find, despite it being popular among his friends. when we found it, i was not sure we were getting it from the person who actually created it. i was suspicious because the site was festooned with buttons that looked like they would start the download but instead led to dead ends populated by links to download accelerators and other utilities we did not want. grubby ads blinked alongside. i'm not sure mature russian women are keen to meet my 12-year-old son. cybersecurity alert special index is your phone listening to you? how to hack the average home hanging out with the script kiddies ukraine blackout hacks 'could happen elsewhere' after a few dead ends, we clicked the right link but then had to wait while we were put through several re-directs and a pop-up page that could not be shut down if we wanted the mod.  we did, so we stuck with it and the download started. and kept going. and going. which was odd given it was only a few megabytes in size. my suspicions aroused, i killed the download over my son's protests. it was just as well. running it through an online malware scanner revealed that though it was not actively malicious it would have installed adware and hijacked searches. definitely not the mod we wanted. soon afterwards, i found a warning about the page saying it was fake. that warning was circulated by the stop mod reposts campaign. it is attempting to stop popular mods being hijacked by conmen, virus writers and cyber-thieves.  it maintains a long, long list of the scam pages offering re-packaged mods. it even makes an extension for web browsers that warns when you stray on to a dodgy site. "minecraft is a huge target," said chris boyd, a security researcher at malwarebytes and a veteran scam-spotter. he has seen fake sites offering the game for free, fake pages asking visitors to log in with their minecraft name and password as well as a variety of other scams offering skins, capes and cheats. but, he said, there was a long history of cyber-conmen going after children and the things they do online. he remembers seeing scams in 1999 that targeted the economy around neopets - digital creatures popular with younger web users.  keep all software up-to-date and patched. use anti-virus and anti-spyware software. and a firewall. give your children an account on a pc or laptop that restricts what they can install.  use strong passwords (mix letters, numbers and symbols) and do not share them. not even with friends. be wary of links offered in chat forums or in-game. talk to your children about what is appropriate behaviour.  choose neutral user names. use different login details on different sites. do not reveal personal information, even to those who are being friendly. be sceptical of flashy ads and links to games, cheats, and freebies that offer in-game currencies. check if there is a way to restrict who children play with online. check online privacy settings to see with whom data is being shared. younger gamers are regularly targeted, said mark james of security firm eset and many inadvertently give away their age with the names they choose when they sign up to a site or service. scammers and conmen can lurk in forums offering advice and links to extras, cheats and advice pages that are actually laced with malware.  "often in-game chat channels play host to predators waiting for that click on a 'bad' link that infects a device," he said. there is evidence that lurking on a gaming service pays off for the bad guys. valve, which runs the massively popular steam gaming service, revealed late last year that 77,000 accounts for the service are being hijacked each month. control of those accounts will be lost via steam's chat system or through booby-trapped links. mr james warned against befriending people on social media just to get "freebies" for games and said parents needed to educate children about safe browsing and gaming and what information was appropriate to share. without this, he said, children can be an easy target. "if they want that mod or add-on they will do almost anything to get it," he said. "unfortunately many young people do not have the perspective to see what long-term damage could be done if they are caught out." statistics from security firm symantec suggest that younger people are getting hit regularly. a report it produced in early 2016 revealed that a quarter of parents have had a child or know someone with a child whose actions compromised the family's online security. jacqueline beauchere, microsoft's chief online safety officer, said scammers go to great lengths to catch children out. "young people are easily enticed to click flashy advertisements, visit unofficial websites of popular celebrities, download so-called 'free' games, and tap 'agree', 'ok', or 'i accept' to quickly get to where and what they want to online," she said. "many of these actions are just notorious pathways to viruses, spyware and other malicious software." the scammers went after children, said ms beauchere, because of the cache of valuable loot that one mistake might lead them to. "among criminals, personal and financial data about any and all individuals has become the sought-after 'currency' of the web," she said. cyber-thieves targeted children only to get at this data, she said.  mr boyd from malwarebtyes agreed. and, he said, what helped the scammers was the way children typically get online.  "a lot of kids play via their parents tablets, laptops and desktops," he said. "it's quite likely that parents will re-use login details on other accounts. and there's likely to be a payment method attached to it." that is the data they are after, he said. what makes this tougher to police, he said, is that children often know more than their parents about the technology. that competence can fool many parents into thinking their offspring are safer online than they actually are.  "i would be surprised if parents know much about how the technology works," he said. but, he added, staying safe is not impossible. it takes collaboration between parents and children. both need to educate the other about what they do and how to stay safe.  stream or download the latest tech tent episode on the bbc websitelisten to previous episodes on the bbc websitefollow tech tent on twitter will apple's gold-plated reputation with consumers be dented by an embarrassing security foul-up? also on the podcast this week: is bitcoin really using more energy than ireland? and what kind of qualities do you need to succeed as a professional e-sports player? we try to answer those questions on this week's tech tent. for a long time, apple has boasted - with some justification - that it has an excellent record of keeping its devices safe from intruders.  in any case, with pcs having the lion's share of the computer market, hackers and security researchers used to spend little time hunting down vulnerabilities in macs. but on tuesday a turkish software developer tweeted this: "dear @applesupport, we noticed a *huge* security issue at macos high sierra. anyone can login as 'root' with empty password after clicking on login button several times." it sounded unlikely but it was true. what it meant was that anyone who got hold of an apple computer running the latest operating system could get root access to the machine with very little trouble. "root access is a bit like having a master key to the building," prof angela sasse, from university college london, tells tech tent. "it's really bad news."  she explains that it means an intruder could install new software, such as spyware, on your computer. and she is surprised that this issue was not spotted before high sierra was released. "normally before release you would test that root access is adequately protected." apple moved quickly to release an update to patch this loophole in the operating system's defences. so will it suffer any long-term consequences in terms of a loss of consumer trust? neil mawston, from the tech consultancy strategy analytics, says apple is a very clever company with a great brand.  but he has some concerns: "we're seeing this gradual tick-tock of mis-steps in delivery."  recently, we have seen the delay in the launch of apple's homepod - and another, albeit much more minor, security issue.  "if products are late or they have lots of flaws and that keeps on building up momentum, then that negative press coverage eventually catches up with them." a decade ago a furious steve jobs would have roamed the cupertino campus to find someone to eject from the building for such a serious error. tim cook's style is very much more measured, but do not be surprised if there is some movement in the upper ranks of mac management in the coming months. it has been a dizzying week for anyone who takes an interest in the crypto-currency bitcoin. it started 2017 worth just under $1,000 (£740) but this week it soared past the $10,000 mark. in the days that followed, the volatility we have come to expect from the bitcoin market has become even more pronounced. in the space of three hours, its price dropped by more than $2,000, only to bounce back a few hours later. the debate over whether this is a speculative bubble or the future of money gets hotter by the moment. but so too do concerns over the amount of energy used in the process of mining bitcoin and recording transactions. as banks of computers whir away, many of them in china, the electricity consumed as they solve increasingly complex mathematical problems gets ever greater. according to one study, bitcoin is now using more energy each year than the whole of ireland, and will soon surpass morocco's energy use. this does not sound sustainable, but as long as the value of bitcoin keeps rising, miners will not care about the electricity bills. and meanwhile the incentive to plant software on websites to hijack visitors' computers to help mine bitcoin will only increase. competitive video gaming or e-sports is a rapidly growing business. market research firm newzoo thinks this young industry will make nearly $700m in revenue this year. and it is not all about consoles - mobile gaming is increasingly popular. this weekend, london hosts the clash royale crown world championships, a global tournament entered by more than 27 million players, according to supercell, the finnish creators of the mobile game clash royale. only a few of those will be professional e-sports players. this new breed can earn substantial sums, not only from tournaments but from sponsors, advertisers and from fans who watch them streaming their practice sessions on twitch or youtube and just send them money. so what does it take to make it as one of these new sports stars?  we hear from electr1fy - yes, it is important to have an arresting name - who tells us his youtube channel has added 40,000 subscribers and had generated 40 million views over the last month.  "you need fast instincts  - every delay can cost you the game," he tells us. "and you need to get into your opponent's head." that message is reinforced by the rum ham, a gamescaster - another new profession - providing live commentary on e-sports. he says it is about making good decisions quickly.  "they're making decisions where hundreds of thousands of dollars are on the line in a split second.  these players are doing mental maths, spatial awareness, predicting the outcomes of a combat before the troops are even on the field - all in a three-minute game play." and the prize? well the best players are making more than a million dollars a year. time to put away the crossword, forget about the sudoku and get down to some serious gaming.  a power plant and other industries in southern iran have been targeted by the stuxnet computer worm, an iranian civil defence official says. but the cyber attack has been successfully rebuffed and prevented from spreading, iranian media report. iran's nuclear enrichment efforts were hit hard in 2010 by the stuxnet worm, which was also blamed for problems at industrial plants and factories. tehran accused israel and the us of planting the malware. provincial civil defence chief ali akbar akhavan said iranian industry was constantly being targeted by "enemy cyber attacks" and companies in hormozgan province had recently been infiltrated, the semi-official isna news agency reported. "the bandar abbas electricity supply company has come under cyber attack," he told a news conference. "but we were able to prevent its expansion owing to our timely measures and the co-operation of skilled hackers." the bandar abbas plant, on iran's southern coast in the strait of hormuz, is said to supply power to neighbouring provinces as well as hormozgan. iran has regularly claimed success in defeating computer viruses, such as stuxnet and flame, which have affected its industries. in april, a malware attack on iran's oil ministry and national oil company forced the government to disconnect key oil facilities, including the kharg island oil terminal that handles most of tehran's exports. late last year, iran said some of its computer systems were infected by the duqu spyware which was believed to have been designed to steal data to help launch further cyber attacks. the attacks have affected its energy exports as well as its controversial uranium enrichment programme, which western countries suspect is aimed at constructing nuclear weapons. tehran insists it is solely for peaceful purposes. the biggest cyber attack so far was from the stuxnet worm, believed to be the first known virus specifically targeted at infrastructure such as power stations. in 2010, iran accused the west of trying to disrupt its nuclear facilities with the stuxnet worm. researchers estimated that five industrial processing organisations in iran were hit repeatedly between june 2009 and april 2010 by the worm which they believed had been created by a "nation state" in the west. iran said centrifuges used in uranium enrichment had been sabotaged and the un nuclear watchdog said the enrichment programme had been temporarily brought to a halt. reports suggested that the worm had infected the personal computers of staff at iran's first nuclear power station at bushehr. in september this year, israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu told the united nations general assembly that time was running out to stop tehran having enough enriched uranium to build a nuclear bomb. us president barack obama has said the us will do "what we must" to stop iran acquiring nuclear weapons. young people are a growing target for identity theft cases, which have reached record levels in 2016, fraud prevention organisation cifas says.  almost 25,000 victims of fraud were aged under 30, with the number of under-21s defrauded rising by a third. the statistics, from 277 banks and businesses, show almost 173,000 recorded frauds in 2016 - the highest level since records began 13 years ago.  cifas says people must be more vigilant about protecting their personal data. the 172,919 incidents of identity fraud last year represents 53.3% of all fraud recorded by cifas, of which 88% occurred online.    the number of under-21s being defrauded rose from 1,343 in 2015 to 1,803 in 2016. cifas deputy chief executive mike haley said better education around fraud and financial crime was needed.  "with nine out of 10 identity frauds committed online and with all age groups at risk, we are urging everyone to make it more difficult for fraudsters to abuse their identity.  "we all remember to protect our possessions through locking our house or flat or car but we don't take the same care to protect our most important asset - our identities." city of london police commander chris greany, who is national co-ordinator for economic crime, said: "with close to half of all crime now either fraud or cyber crime we all need to make sure we protect our identity. "identity fraud is the key to unlocking your valuables. things like weak passwords or not updating your software are the same as leaving a window or door unlocked." luke croydon: 'it's a very troubling experience' in the last five years, both luke croydon and his partner have been victims of identity theft.  he says many people in the building they live in have been victims, because letterboxes are out on the street so bills are more easily stolen.  the thief then signs up to various credit accounts, and steals the cards when they are delivered.  the first you learn about it is when you see a statement with a sum of money in your name left in your letterbox, he explains. he goes on to describe what he calls "a very troubling experience" and says: "you wonder what else they have done with that personal detail."  if it's only bank accounts, that's one thing but you worry they might have signed up to websites or applied for a passport, he says. it's a mixture of anger for the person who has defrauded you, and fear for whether the bank in question is going to try and call in that debt that you didn't build up, he adds. according to cifas, the vast majority of identity fraud takes place when a fraudster pretends to be an individual, so as to buy a product or take out a loan in their name.  fraudsters get hold of the necessary personal material by stealing mail, computer hacking, obtaining data on the dark web, and exploiting personal information on social media. they can also gather it though social engineering, where people give up personal information to someone pretending to be from their bank, the police or a retailer.  cifas advises people to shred important paper documents - and use passwords, privacy settings and anti-virus software on their computers. limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes. up to 80% of cyber threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas the mozilla foundation has accused uk software group gamma international of falsely associating one of its products with the firefox name. finfisher is legitimate surveillance software thought to be used by governments to covertly obtain data. it is installed unknowingly by its target computer user, often by disguising itself as an update to a well known programme such as firefox. gamma international has not responded to emailed requests for comment. university of toronto research group the citizen lab said it believed finfisher command and control servers were currently active, or had been present, in 36 countries. in 2011 the bbc found documents in the state security building in egypt, looted during the uprising, which suggested that the hampshire-based firm had offered to supply finfisher to the egyptian  government to monitor activists.  gamma international denied supplying it but the files seen by the bbc described a five month trial which included successful access to email accounts and the recording of encrypted skype calls. the mozilla foundation has now sent a cease and desist letter, warning gamma international not to use the name of firefox, its open source browser, as camouflage for the program. "our brand and trademarks are used by the spyware as a method to avoid detection and deletion," said mozilla chief privacy officer alex fowler in a statement. "as an open source project trusted by hundreds of millions of people around the world, defending mozilla's trademarks from this abuse is vital to our brand, mission and continued success." thousands of documents said to detail the cia's hacking tools were published by wikileaks on tuesday, and many were given peculiar names by their makers. here are five of the strangest. one of the hacking tools that featured in a lot of headlines was the weeping angel that appears to get a samsung smart tv to record conversations. it's named after a character in the sci-fi tv series doctor who, which appears as still as a statue. the name could have been chosen "because you think it is not alive but it is, you think it isn't doing anything but it is" says alan woodward, a security researcher who advises europol and previously advised uk spy agency gchq. the leaks suggest the tv appears to turn itself off and, likewise, the weeping angel can appear to be frozen and come to life when you are not looking. while the uk's mi5 agency is said to have helped build this spyware, it's possible cia hackers from the us are also doctor who fans.  another hacking tool, which attempts to listen to calls on systems such as skype, is named after the sontarans.  these characters look like potatoes and try to conquer the earth by emitting poisoned gas.  the tool ricky bobby can control a computer remotely without detection using commands in microsoft windows, according to the leak. but it is named after a far more conspicuous character. racing car driver ricky bobby was played by will ferrell in the 2006 film talladega nights: the ballad of ricky bobby. after crashing in a race, he runs round the track wearing only his helmet and underwear insisting he is on fire.  he also manages to get his best friend, cal, to become a car racer. this is not lost on the makers of ricky bobby the hacking tool.  when they made a listening post for rickybobby, they called it cal. one of the leaks suggests hackers love naming their spy tools so much that they come up with names before they've made the tool. starving weasel is from a long list of names for future tools chosen "because they are awesome". "these are mostly oblique references to things i like, tv tropes names that amuse me and situations or phrases at work encoded in toolname-esque obscurity," says the person whose name has been replaced with user #77010.  oblique is an understatement. starving weasel is a reference to a lyric from mid-way through an 11-minute song by weird al yankovic. in the song albuquerque, weird al goes to the doughnuts shop only to be told there are no doughnuts left but there is a "box of one dozen starving, crazed weasels". he buys the weasels and they jump out of their box and start eating his face, at which point he meets the woman of his dreams. this is where the cia hackers may reveal themselves in their geekiest form, because maddening whispers is a reference to the online role-playing game world of warcraft. "it's almost too stereotypical - it's really painting a picture of a hacker who likes pizza, beer, science fiction and online gaming," says mr woodward. the game sees players exploring a vast landscape full of monsters, completing quests and interacting with other gamers. maddening whispers is a spell in the game, which, when you deploy it, slowly weakens your opponent.  as for the tool, it tries to get remote access to a device named vanguard. mr woodward is unsure what this refers to but suggests it could be vanguard alarm systems.  niche on both counts. some hacking tools are named after slightly more obvious signs of aggression: birds of prey.  bald eagle, harpy eagle and sparrowhawk all feature. a bird of prey can swoop on its victim almost silently.  similarly, the sparrowhawk tool can detect the letters you are hitting on a keyboard without you having any idea you are being watched. then there is the less threatening snowy owl, which is described in the leaks as a tool designed to remotely operate a mac computer.  there is a possibility it was not named after the bird at all but instead was inspired by the brownies.  in a brownie troop the snowy owl is an adult who helps the leader of the troop, the brown owl. "maybe we have our first indication that there is a woman involved," speculates mr woodward.  the dutch government has announced plans to give police far greater powers to fight cybercrime.  under a new bill, investigators would be able to hack into computers, install spyware, read emails and destroy files.  they could also break into servers located abroad, if they were being used to block services.   critics say the proposed measures are unnecessary and could set a dangerous precedent for people living under oppressive governments. use of the powers would be subject to the approval of a judge, the government stresses.  the bill would also make it a crime for a suspect to refuse to decipher encrypted files during a police investigation. it is expected the draft legislation will be put to parliament by the end of the year. the bill singles out child pornography and terrorism as two areas of special concern. the publication of stolen data would also become punishable. justice minister ivo opstelten is also keen to put an end to so-called ddos (distributed denial of service) web-attacks, that flood intended targets such as banks with large amounts of traffic, making them unreachable. . simone halink of digital rights group bits of freedom said the law would set a bad precedent and had been "rushed". "what you see is that the police have especially a shortage of knowledge and manpower - not of powers," she said. a dutch citizen was arrested last month on suspicion of mounting one of the biggest ever web attacks. websites of anti-junk mail outfit spamhaus were bombarded with huge amounts of data in an attempt to knock them offline.  web users in iran and syria aiming to circumvent censorship controls are being targeted with spyware, according to security researchers. a team at the university of toronto
 said installation software for the popular proxy tool simurgh also implanted keylogging spyware.
         simurgh is designed to anonymise net use and allow access to blocked sites.  however, an added trojan is said to send data from victims' pcs to a site registered with a saudi arabian isp. this can include the computer operator's username and machine name, as well as every window clicked and every keystroke entered. the developers of simurgh subsequently posted  
          
 
          a warning on their website
 noting that versions of their software installer downloaded from the file sharing service 4shared had been compromised.
         anti-virus firms sophos and avira have also updated their malware scanners to detect the code. morgan marquis-boire, a technical adviser at the university's munk school of global affairs, said the isass.exe file allowed "persistent access to the victim's computer" as well as "data exfiltration" capabilities. "this trojan has been specifically crafted to target people attempting to evade government censorship," he added. "if found to be installed on a computer one must consider all online accounts (email, banking etc) to have been compromised and it is advised that all online passwords be changed as soon as possible." he noted that a side effect of the code was a lack of navigation sounds in microsoft's internet explorer and other applications. a follow-up post by sophos noted that although the data was being sent to what appeared to be a saudi arabian registered entity, some of the servers being used were in the united states. sophos stressed that the discovery did not mean that the attack had been instigated by parties in the us, as anyone could have rented the server space. the news comes as investigators probe a malware attack - dubbed flame - found to have infected computers in iran and other parts of the middle east, which is thought to have been designed to steal sensitive data. however, sophos suggested that the the simurgh trojan was likely to have compromised more computers. "unlike flame, which is highly targeted malware that has only been found on a handful of computers globally, this malware is targeting users for whom having their communications compromised could result in imprisonment or worse," wrote chester wisniewski, senior security advisor at sophos,  
          
 
          on his company's blog
.
         "many thousands depend on the legitimate simurgh service, which makes it likely that far more people have been impacted by this malware." the us national security agency has spied on french diplomats in washington and at the un, according to the latest claims in le monde newspaper. nsa internal memos obtained by le monde detailed the use of a sophisticated surveillance programme, known as genie. us spies allegedly hacked foreign networks, introducing the spyware into the software, routers and firewalls of millions of machines. it comes a day after claims the nsa tapped millions of phones in france. the details in the latest le monde article are based on leaks from ex-intelligence analyst edward snowden, through glen greenwald, the outgoing guardian journalist, who is feeding the material from brazil, says the bbc's christian fraser in paris. it comes on the day the us secretary of state, john kerry, is in london meeting foreign counterparts to discuss syria. the le monde report sets out details of genie, an nsa surveillance programme in which spyware implants were introduced remotely to overseas computers, including foreign embassies.  it claims bugs were introduced to the french embassy in washington (under a code name "wabash") and to the computers of the french delegation at the un, codenamed "blackfoot". the article suggests that in 2011, the us allocated $652m (£402m) in funding for the programme, which was spent on "spy implants".  tens of millions of computers were reported to have been hacked that year. a document dated august 2010 suggests intelligence stolen from foreign embassy computers ensured the us knew ahead of time the positions of other security council members, before a un vote for a resolution imposing new sanctions on iran.   the us was worried the french were drifting to the brazilian side - who were opposed to implementing sanctions - when in truth they were always aligned to the us position, says our correspondent. the intelligence agency quotes susan rice, then-us ambassador to the un, who praises the work done by the nsa: "it helped me know... the truth, and reveal other [countries'] positions on sanctions, allowing us to keep one step ahead in the negotiations." on monday, le monde alleged that the nsa spied on 70.3 million phone calls in france between 10 december 2012 and 8 january 2013. at a breakfast meeting with the us secretary of state on tuesday, french foreign minister laurent fabius demanded a full explanation.   referring to a telephone call between the french and us presidents, mr fabius told reporters: "i said again to john kerry what francois hollande told barack obama, that this kind of spying conducted on a large scale by the americans on its allies is something that is unacceptable." asked if france was considering reprisals against the us, government spokeswoman najat vallaud-belkacem replied: "it is up to foreign minister fabius to decide what line we take but i don't think there is any need for an escalation. "we have to have a respectful relationship between partners, between allies. our confidence in that has been hit but it is after all a very close, individual relationship that we have." both french officials made their comments before the latest revelations appeared in le monde. mr snowden, a former nsa worker, went public with revelations about us spying operations in june. the information he leaked led to claims of systematic spying by the nsa and cia on a global scale. targets included rivals like china and russia, as well as allies like the eu and brazil. the nsa was also forced to admit it had captured email and phone data from millions of americans. mr snowden is currently in russia, where he was granted a year-long visa after making an asylum application. the us wants him extradited to face trial on criminal charges. seven internet service providers have filed a legal complaint against the uk's intelligence agency gchq. isps from the us, uk, netherlands and south korea have joined forces with campaigners privacy international to take the agency to task over alleged attacks on network infrastructure. it is the first time that gchq has faced such action. the move follows allegations about government snooping made by us whistleblower edward snowden. the isps claim that alleged network attacks, outlined in a series of articles in der spiegel and the intercept, were illegal and "undermine the goodwill the organisations rely on". the allegations that the legal actions are based on include: claims that employees of belgian telecommunications company belgacom were targeted by gchq and infected with malware to gain access to network infrastructure gchq and the us national security agency, where mr snowden worked, had a range of network exploitation and intrusion capabilities, including a "man-on-the-side" technique that covertly injects data into existing data streams to create connections that will enable the targeted infection of users the intelligence agencies used an automated system, codenamed turbine, that allowed them to scale up network implants german internet exchange points were targeted, allowing agencies to spy on all internet traffic coming through those nodes while the isps taking the action were not directly named in the leaked snowden documents, privacy international claims that "the type of surveillance being carried out allows them to challenge the practices... because they and their users are at threat of being targeted". privacy international has previously filed two other cases - the first against alleged mass surveillance programmes tempora, prism and upstream, and the second against the deployment by gchq of computer intrusion capabilities and spyware. eric king, deputy director of privacy international, said "these widespread attacks on providers and collectives undermine the trust we all place on the internet and greatly endangers the world's most powerful tool for democracy and free expression." the isps involved in the action are uk-based greennet, riseup (us), greenhost (netherlands), mango (zimbabwe), jinbonet (south korea), may first/people link (us)and the chaos computer club (germany). cedric knight, of isp greennet, added: "snowden's revelations have exposed gchq's view that independent operators like greennet are legitimate targets for internet surveillance, so we could be unknowingly used to collect data on our users. we say this is unlawful and utterly unacceptable in a democracy." gchq maintains that all its work is conducted "in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate". identity theft is reaching "epidemic levels", according to a fraud prevention group, with people in their 30s the most targeted group. id fraudsters obtain personal information before pretending to be that individual and apply for loans or store cards in their name. a total of 89,000 cases were recorded in the first six months of the year by uk anti-fraud organisation cifas. that is a 5% rise on the same period last year and a new record high. "we have seen identity fraud attempts increase year on year, now reaching epidemic levels, with identities being stolen at a rate of almost 500 a day," said simon dukes, chief executive of cifas. "these frauds are taking place almost exclusively online. the vast amounts of personal data that is available either online or through data breaches is only making it easier for the fraudster." the curious case of leah palmerunmasking the fraudsters id theft accounts for more than half of fraud recorded by cifas, a not-for-profit organisation that shares fraud prevention tips between businesses and public bodies. more than four in five of these crimes were committed online, it said, with many victims unaware that they had been targeted until they received a random bill or realised their credit rating had slumped. this would prevent them getting a loan of their own. fraudsters steal identities by gathering information such as their name and address, date of birth and bank account details. they get hold of such information by stealing mail, hacking computers, trawling social media, tricking people into giving details or buying data through the "dark web". i got a worrying insight into how our online activity can leave us open to identity theft when a security company offered to examine my digital footprint.  its 30-page report showed that a lot of personal details that might be useful to a criminal were out there on public websites - but if you choose to have an online presence, that is quite hard to avoid.   far more worrying was the presence in hidden corners of the web of some of my passwords for various accounts, harvested in some of the many hacking attacks on major online firms.  luckily i had already changed those passwords, but the security researchers told me that anyone in the western world who used the internet reasonably often was likely to have their details held in one of these data dumps. that information is up for sale on a number of criminal marketplaces.  identity theft is big business and it is thriving on the dark web.  victims are more likely to be in their 30s and 40s, often because a good deal of information about them has been gathered online. the stereotypical image of a fraud victim is someone who is elderly and vulnerable, but the over-60s are the only age group that has seen cases fall this year compared with the first half of the year, according to cifas. the age group which has seen the biggest rise is 21 to 30-year-olds. this finding was mirrored in separate research by credit checking company experian. it said that since 2014, it was increasingly likely that victims were male, aged in their 20s and living in london. cifas said it was important that employers needed to be alert to fraud, rather than just consumers. there had been a sharp rise in id fraudsters applying for loans, online retail, telecoms and insurance products, it added. "for smaller and medium-sized businesses in particular, they must focus on educating staff on good cyber-security behaviours and raise awareness of the social engineering techniques employed by fraudsters. relying solely on new fraud prevention technology is not enough," mr dukes said. katy worobec, from uk finance, which represents the banking industry, said: "tackling fraud and financial crime is a top priority for the industry. banks have sophisticated controls in place to safeguard the financial system from fraudsters, and work closely with enforcement agencies and government to identify and disrupt criminal activity." anil sharma found out the hard way that fraudsters had enough information about him to obtain new smartphones in his name. not one but two mobile phone contracts taken out through a well-known high street retailer were posted to his liverpool home.  he says the chain was quite dismissive of his plight and he was forced to contact the mobile networks to resolve the situation. one was more helpful than the other, mr sharma says, but ultimately both accepted that the contracts were taken out fraudulently and cancelled them. as well as taking a good deal of phone bashing to resolve, the identity theft was also stressful - and affected his credit score as well. "it's very very worrying." but how did the fraudsters obtain his details? initially mr sharma thought it was the result of losing his wallet a couple of years ago, but action fraud says an online breach is the more likely culprit.  limit the amount of personal information you give away on social networking sites. your real friends know where you live and know your birthdayupdate your computer's firewall, anti-virus and anti-spyware programmes. up to 80% of cyber-threats can be removed by doing thisnever share passwords or pins (personal identification numbers) with others and do not write them downuse strong passwords and pins - don't use your date of birth or your child's name, include a mix of upper and lower case letters, numbers and punctuation marks. aim for a minimum of 10 characters in a passworddo not use the same password or pin for more than one accountshred all your financial documents before you throw them away source: cifas online music piracy across the world "declined significantly" in 2012, according to a new report. the npd group said last year the number of users on peer-to-peer (p2p) illegally downloading music fell by 17% - down to 21 million worldwide. the market research firm cited an increased use of legal streaming music sites as being behind the drop. it comes as a separate report noted that global music revenues had risen for the first time since 1999. the international federation of the phonographic industry (ifpi) said that accelerating digital music sales had caused a 0.3% upturn in global revenues - a total of $16.5bn (£10.9bn). a small boost, but it is the first year of growth for well over a decade. "it is hard to remember a year for the recording industry that has begun with such a palpable buzz in the air," said frances moore, chief executive of ifpi. "these are hard-won successes for an industry that has innovated, battled and transformed itself over a decade.  "they show how the music industry has adapted to the internet world, learned how to meet the needs of consumers and monetised the digital marketplace." the npd group's report, based on its annual study of music consumers, said that at p2p file sharing's peak, in 2005, as many as 33 million people used the services - one in five of all internet users aged 13 and older. but in 2012 that number was measured as being down to 21 million people. the report said as many as 40% of people who used illegal music services in 2011 stopped doing so in 2012. of those, 20% said this was due to the fact the illegal service they were using had been shut down, or had contained spyware and viruses. more than half the users who stopped using illegal sites said they now preferred legal services such as the uk-headquartered spotify. the music industry has undertaken a sizable campaign over several years to see illegal sites and services put out of business. in the uk, the british phonographic industry (bpi) took action to the courts, obtaining a court order to force internet service providers to block access to file-sharing site the pirate bay. the pirate party uk - a political group that campaigns for an "open" internet - launched a proxy service to allow uk users to circumvent the block of the pirate bay, but that too was closed following legal threats from the bpi. "in recent years, we've seen less p2p activity, because the music industry has successfully used litigation to shut down [p2p client] limewire and other services," said russ crupnick, senior vice president of npd.  "many of those who continued to use p2p services reported poor experiences, due to rampant spyware and viruses on illegal p2p sites." despite the seemingly good news, controversial measures to curb piracy further are still taking place. on tuesday, the "six strikes" campaign - where users engaging in piracy are given six warnings before action is taken - came into force in the us. the music industry has also started to refocus its efforts by targeting those who make profiting from illegal music possible, such as advertisers, as well as the piracy sites themselves. elsewhere, search engines like google have been pressured to demote piracy websites in their search results. more needs to be done on that front, ifpi said: "searches for the names of popular artists followed by the term "mp3" still return a large number of results for illegal sources on the first page.  "in august 2012, google announced it would take into account the number of valid copyright notices it receives when returning search results.  "that was a welcome step in principle but unfortunately has not been translated into results." skype, the internet communications platform, is being used by hackers to distribute a "worm" that infects windows pcs. when users click on an instant message saying "lol is this your new profile pic?" they unwittingly download a file containing a trojan horse malware file. this opens a backdoor allowing hackers to hijack infected pcs and recruit them into a "botnet army". users can be locked out of their machines and held to ransom.  according to internet security specialist sophos, the worm is a variant of the well-known "dorkbot" worm which has been spread by social media platforms such as facebook and twitter. when the worm infects a computer it sends out the "lol" message to the user's contact list. unsuspecting recipients think the message has originated from someone they know and click on the link, thereby downloading the malware payload. skype said in a statement: "skype takes the user experience very seriously, particularly when it comes to security. we are aware of this malicious activity and are working quickly to mitigate its impact.  "we strongly recommend upgrading to the newest skype version and applying updated security features on your computer.  "additionally, following links - even when from your contacts - that look strange or are unexpected is not advisable." botnets are often used to mount distributed denial of service (ddos) attacks - forcing websites offline - to run spyware or to send out spam emails. publicity about the threat has made many users wary of clicking on strange-looking links posted via social networks, which may have prompted the perpetrators of this latest attack to switch tactics. "the danger is, of course, that skype users may be less in the habit of being suspicious about links sent to them than, say, facebook users," said sophos's senior technology consultant graham cluley. rip internet explorer. microsoft is phasing out the web browser, in name at least, apparently to shake off negative connotations. instead it wants a fresh start for the new browser being baked into windows 10, codenamed project spartan. microsoft is still deciding on a name, according to the verge. losing ie will feel for many like the end of an era. early windows users first got to know internet explorer 1.0 in august 1995. over the next 20 years, 11 versions were released.  at the peak of its popularity, internet explorer dominated the web.  it was responsible for 95% of all website visits. love it or loathe it, the iconic blue "e" was part of our lives. back in those days when instead of googling things, people asked jeeves… all computer images looked like pixelated clipart... users got to know its quirks, accepting its bugs as simply a part of life...  then in 2004, mozilla firefox came along.  it brought along customization, private browsing and extensions. in browsing terms, it was a mover and shaker.  ...especially as ie began to be plagued by serious security concerns. spyware, adware and computer viruses used vulnerabilities in the way ie was set up to install itself on users' computers. there was a security scandal in 2006 when it was discovered it was possible for rogue websites to steal information or take control of users' computers.  in 2008, the us computer emergency readiness team (cert) recommended turning off the activex controls inside ie because of security concerns.  in august 2014, cert told users to ditch ie entirely until it was patched.  not good. by then, chrome was on the scene. it arrived in 2008, lightweight and speedy with countless extensions and 'apps' (often just websites) available from the chrome store. it quickly powered its way to dominance - it now has 51% usage share worldwide, according to statcounter.  what you might not know is chrome almost didn't happen because google's boss, eric schmidt, didn't want to go through "bruising browser wars" and google was a comparatively small company at the time. as chrome grew in popularity, ie appeared to be entering its twilight years, at least reputation-wise. these memes sum up the issues users complained about most. such was its reputation that a story which suggested that users of internet explorer have a lower iq than people who chose other browsers was picked up by news organisations worldwide, including the bbc. it turned out to be a hoax.  even ie developers knew they had a problem. in a reddit ama (ask me anything) in august, they hoped "sincerely" they could change the reputation of ie.  despite its reputation lots of people do still use internet explorer. it comes second or third in most usage share estimates. in fact it is so widely used that some people think microsoft isn't getting rid of internet explorer entirely, because it would hurt the way some organisations operate.  so maybe internet explorer is not dead after all, just retiring.  follow @bbcnewsbeat on twitter, bbcnewsbeat on instagram and radio1newsbeat on youtube almost a third of women aged between 16 and 24 say they've been in a controlling relationship. that's according to avon and women's aid, who talked to 2,000 people. the study also suggests that many women don't realise they're in a coercive relationship until they break up. a new law was introduced in december which means domestic abusers who control victims via social media or spy on them online could face up to five years in prison. the legislation, brought into force in england and wales, targets people who put their partners or family members through psychological and emotional torment but stop short of violence. stats from the study suggest 21% of women only knew they'd been in a controlling relationship after it had ended and 9% when friends and family pointed it out. the survey also revealed that... • 1 in 20 women say being scared of their partner is normal and acceptable. • 10% of women regard their partner repeatedly checking their phone as a normal and acceptable part of a relationship.  • 5% of women regard being told what they can and cannot wear as normal and acceptable. chlo, who's 18 and from brixton, south london, was a victim of domestic violence. she says she was too young to realise that she'd been in a controlling relationship. "my ex was my first boyfriend, and i think it's often the case that young people don't have the experience of healthy relationships to know that what's happening isn't normal.  "it's so easy just to think 'all couples argue', especially when someone is telling you that you provoked them all the time.  "and once they start wearing down your self-esteem and isolating you, it spirals to a point that you can't see a way out." in 2014, newsbeat talked to mark kirkpatrick. his former girlfriend, gemma hollings, almost killed him after a row in may that year. "she was alright in the first few weeks," he said.  "i thought it was a passing thing when she became controlling. "she started telling me not to wear shorts. she wouldn't let me have my hair shaved even though that's how it was when she first met me. "it got violent after a few weeks of living at hers. she pushed me, tried strangling me." * isolating a person from their friends and family * depriving them of their basic needs * monitoring their time * monitoring a person via online communication tools or using spyware * taking control over aspects of their everyday life, such as where they can go, who they can see, what to wear and when they can sleep * depriving them of access to support services, such as specialist support or medical services * repeatedly putting them down such as telling them they are worthless * enforcing rules and activity which humiliate, degrade or dehumanise the victim * forcing the victim to take part in criminal activity such as shoplifting, neglect or abuse of children to encourage self-blame and prevent disclosure to authorities * financial abuse including control of finances * threats to hurt or kill * threats to a child * threats to reveal or publish private information (e.g. threatening to 'out' someone) * assault * criminal damage (such as destroying household goods) * rape * preventing a person from having access to transport or from working the survey is part of women's aid and avon's love don't feel bad campaign. there are also links to advice and help on the bbc advice pages or call women's aid on call 0808 2000 247.  for more stories like this one you can now download the bbc newsbeat app straight to your device. for ios go here. for android go here israel has destroyed three spying devices discovered in southern lebanon, the lebanese army has said. the "booby-trapped wire-tapping devices" found in the villages of zrariye and rzay, north of the litani river, were bombed on monday, it added. the devices had earlier been found by members of the military wing of the shia islamist movement, hezbollah. israel has not commented. lebanon has accused its neighbour in the past of planting similar spying devices. lebanon has been in a state of war with israel since 1973, while hezbollah fought a 34-day war with israel in 2006 that left some 1,200 lebanese and 160 israelis dead. on monday, hezbollah's al-manar television reported that the "zionist spying devices" had tapped into the group's private wired telecommunications network. "the detection came within the framework of an ongoing spyware detection [operation]," a hezbollah statement said.  "subsequently, the enemy detonated the device remotely, but no-one was hurt due to the high level of alert and caution of the resistance technicians." al-manar said one of the spying devices contained more than 20 boxes and batteries. the device was found on a hill near the border and was linked via an 80m cable to transmission equipment pointing towards israeli military posts, it added. hezbollah said israel's "persistent attacks" on its telecommunications network constituted a violation of lebanese sovereignty and threatened the safety and security of the lebanese people. the lebanese army later confirmed that there had been three blasts in zrariye and rzay at 17:15 local time (14:15 gmt) on monday. "a military expert went to the area and it turned out that the explosions resulted from the bombardment by the israeli enemy of three booby-trapped wire-tapping devices. an investigation is under way to uncover the circumstances of the incident." there were similar incidents involving alleged israeli spying devices in december 2011 and february 2012. israel did not comment at the time. in december 2016 diep saeeda, an outspoken human rights activist from the pakistani city of lahore, received a short message on facebook from someone she didn't know but with whom she had a number of friends in common: "hy dear." she didn't think much of it and never got round to replying. but the messages weren't coming from a fan of mrs saeeda's activism - instead they were the start of a sustained campaign of digital attacks attempting to install malware on her computer and mobile phone to spy on her and steal her data.  over the next year, she received multiple messages from the same facebook account, apparently run by a young woman calling herself sana halimi, claiming to work for the united nations.  glossary: malware, patches and wormspakistan: where reporters face beatings, threats and death however, the attackers targeting mrs saeeda made crucial mistakes that allowed researchers from human rights group amnesty international to trace a number of individuals linked either to the operation or to the malware used.  they include a british-pakistani cyber security expert running a company he claims to be based in wales, and another who used to work for the pakistani army's public relations wing.  mrs saeeda is clear whom she believes is ultimately responsible for the attacks: "i'm convinced these are intelligence agencies... they try to harass people and force them to leave the country."  she says in the past they targeted her for promoting dialogue between ordinary pakistanis and indians.  "there was a time they would visit my home or office on a daily basis. when i get up in the morning, there would be two people outside my home."  but she says the malware attacks were more invasive than anything she had previously experienced.  amnesty international has spoken to three other pakistan human rights activists who have been targeted in the same way. they discovered that the main piece of malware being used had also been used in previously documented attacks on indian military and diplomatic officials.  amnesty international say they have no evidence of pakistani state involvement and are unable to say who is ultimately responsible for conducting the attacks. sherif elsayed-ali, director of global issues at amnesty, told the bbc they were calling on the pakistani authorities to investigate the attacks "as a matter of urgency… and to ensure that human rights defenders are adequately protected both online and offline".  human rights groups have repeatedly warned that the pakistani intelligence services appear to be cracking down on activists who criticize them.  in january 2017, a group of bloggers went missing for a number of weeks before being released. two subsequently told the bbc that they had been detained by the security services and tortured.  a year after first establishing contact with mrs saeeda, "sana halimi" sent her the first messages with malware attached.  mrs saeeda was at the time in a state of panic. one of her closest friends, fellow activist raza khan, had disappeared. the 40-year-old, who worked on promoting better relations between pakistan and india, had been attending a talk on extremism on 2 december 2017. he hasn't been seen since leaving the event. the next day, friends found his door locked and light on - his computer missing. they believe he was taken into custody by the intelligence services.  activist says pakistan tortured himpakistani blogger says he was tortured  a few days after mr khan's disappearance, as mrs saeeda was becoming increasingly vocal in the media, she received her first malware attack. "sana halimi" sent her a fake facebook login page via facebook messenger. had she clicked on it, the site would've recorded her facebook password.  she didn't though and a few weeks later received another malware attack, again from "sana halimi." this time the message contained a link - apparently to a set of new's year's eve-themed photo filters.  in fact, it was malware designed to hack into her mobile phone and intercept text messages.  again, mrs saeeda didn't click on the link. the attackers changed tactics.  "sana halimi" messaged mrs saeeda, telling her she needed to talk to her privately about the disappearance of her friend mr khan.  mrs saeeda, desperate for anything that could help locate mr khan, became suddenly interested.  the messages continued for over two weeks and culminated in a message from "sana halimi" purportedly containing an attached document that would help her "understand" what had happened to mr khan.   mrs saeeda attempted to download it but it was blocked by her computer's antivirus software. the document appeared to be another piece of malware.  over the subsequent weeks and months, mrs saeeda was repeatedly targeted in further attacks, this time over email. one email she received claimed to be from the office of the chief minister of punjab, the province she lived in. it said the chief minister would be visiting her office to discuss the case of her still missing friend mr khan. by this time though, mrs saeeda was aware she was being targeted and forwarded the emails to amnesty international instead of downloading the files.  they discovered mrs saeeda had been sent at least two different pieces of malware, one by facebook, and one by email.  the malware attached to the email could, amongst other things, "log passwords, take pictures from the webcam, activate and record audio from the microphone, steal files from the hard disk". they identified this malware as a software called crimson.  crimson attacks have been documented before. a number of cyber security firms wrote about the malware in march 2016 after discovering it was being used to target indian military and diplomatic figures.    claudio guarnieri, from amnesty, told the bbc the crimson malware used to target mrs saeeda was "almost identical" to that used in the past.   an independent cyber security firm told the bbc it was "highly confident" the attacks documented by amnesty had been carried out by the same group behind the attacks on indian targets.  amnesty was able to use the malware they examined to identify some of those associated with creating it.  they discovered the malware linked to the new year's eve photo filters that "sana halimi" had sent to mrs saeeda via facebook would send any stolen data to a server registered in lahore. the owner of the server was a man called faisal hanif whose email address and phone number were listed in the server details.  these linked to a facebook profile revealing that mr hanif owned a company called super innovative. on its website, super innovative advertises digital spy services, which allow you to monitor calls, text messages and emails of your "children, company employees or loved ones" whilst remaining "unnoticeable".  the company website claims to be based in penarth, wales.  when the bbc visited the property, a woman living at the address admitted knowing mr hanif and told the bbc he did occasionally visit from pakistan. but she said she knew nothing about the company super innovative.  mr guarnieri says there is no evidence mr hanif or super innovative were involved in sending the malware to mrs saeeda but his research connects mr hanif to the creation of the malware used to target her.  "what we believe is that they were the ones tasked to create these tools, but not necessarily the ones that used it." when contacted by the bbc, mr hanif denied involvement in the attacks on mrs saeeda.  he said he believed he had been hacked - and his details falsely used to register the server linked to the malware. he denied having created any spyware that could be used to steal mobile phone data. shortly after the bbc contacted mr hanif, the server linked to the attacks was taken down.  in researching the creators of a previous version of the crimson malware, the amnesty team came across a massive lapse in security by those linked to it. a folder containing as yet unreleased copies of the malware was left publicly accessible. mr guarnieri told the bbc it was a "pretty common mistake" for those working in the field to make.   as well as copies of the malware they found a word document that appeared to be an outline of an online team dedicated to targeting perceived opponents of the pakistani army.  the document states that part of their role consists of checking different websites "to see if there are any anti-army content on it, so we try to take them down or at least trace the administrators… we are working on different target accounts to trace their ip addresses or to compromise their accounts."  by establishing the email address associated with the metadata of the document, amnesty researchers traced it to an islamabad-based cyber security expert, zahid abbasi.  when confronted by the bbc, mr abbasi confirmed he had previously worked for a year for the pakistani military's public relations team (ispr) and that the document was genuine.  he admitted his role included tracing the ip addresses of "people abusing institutions" online and "compromising their accounts" by, for example, sending them fake facebook login pages.  however, he denied that human rights activists were amongst those targeted or that he had any connection to the crimson malware.  there is no evidence that mr abbasi was involved in the attacks on mrs saeeda.  there was no immediate response to the bbc's request for comment from the pakistani army. mrs saeeda told the bbc: "after these attacks i feel insecure - even my own children sending me an email, i'm scared someone is using their name. i don't open emails with attachments."  she added tearfully, "the people who are doing it are spending their resources and their energy on a person who has given 25 years in [peace] activism." 