three people have been injured following a shooting described by police as a "targeted attack". suffolk police said there were reports of shots fired in elms road, red lodge at about 14:55 bst on sunday. two teenage males and a woman suffered "minor injuries caused by shotgun pellets" and have since been discharged from hospital, the force said. four men have been arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm. the men, aged 24, 25, 29 and 35, were taken into police custody for questioning. det ch insp mike brown said: "we are confident this was a targeted attack and there is no threat to the wider public." he said there would be more "officers on patrol to provide reassurance in the area" and appealed for those with information to come forward. find bbc news: east of england on facebook, instagram and twitter. if you have a story suggestion please email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk an italian man in germany has been sentenced to three years in prison for threatening to bomb nhs hospitals, black lives matter rallies and uk mps. emil apreda, 33, sent emails from berlin demanding £10m worth of bitcoin to not carry out the attacks. the national crime agency said he made his threats in the spring and summer of 2020 as the nhs struggled with covid. senior officers kept the threats from the public for fear of patients being scared into not attending hospitals.  apreda used encryption techniques and the dark web in an attempt to hide his identity, but police brought in behavioural, linguistics and cyber-crime experts to track him down.  he sent emails to the nhs pretending to be a far-right activist linked to the neo-nazi group combat 18, but police believe that was just a ruse to instil fear.  he was finally identified by german detectives and armed officers raided his home in berlin on 15 june last year.  uk facing 'nasty mix' of threats, says mi5 chiefpandemic 'exposes' uk security planning gaps for the first time, the nca has revealed details of the case, calling it "one of the most significant threats we've seen for some time" which took place at a time of "deep and heightened anxiety" in the uk.  tim court, the nca's head of investigations, said the content of the emails was "so threatening and so damaging" that it was only disclosed to a "very tight circle of people - and i mean very tight" within the police and government.  meanwhile, security at hospitals was quietly stepped up.  mr court said the risks were both of loss of life and a loss of confidence in the nhs.  "at the height of this, we were losing nearly nearly 1,000 people a day - and for six weeks we're trying to manage somebody who could have been planting a bomb in a hospital, somewhere in the uk." a particular concern was that many patients were on ventilators or oxygen at the time, and it would have been more difficult to get them out of a hospital in the event of a credible bomb threat.   the extortion campaign started on 26 april when apreda sent an email to the nhs, making his demand for bitcoin and warning that he would send a bomb in a package to a hospital in the uk if he was not paid.  this was followed by an identical email to an nca control centre, followed by 16 more over six weeks.  during that period, the death of george floyd in the us and resulting protests in the uk prompted threats from him to blow up black lives matter demonstrations.  finally, as the fourth anniversary of the murder of labour mp jo cox by a far-right activist approached, he emailed that he would kill mps - but did not name any. police behavioural and linguistics experts drew up a profile of the extortionist, who they decided was not from the uk.  police say further "technical leads" pointed to germany. he was finally identified by lka, the german cid. apreda had been issuing deadlines for payment after which he said he would attack, so the day before the anniversary of ms cox's death, german police moved in, blowing open the front door of his berlin flat and arresting him.  police say he has background in computing, but they have discovered no links to combat 18, despite his claims.  the far-right group has been active in the uk in the past, but now exists mainly in the us and germany. apreda was charged and convicted of extortion in germany, but the nca said he could have faced terrorism charges if he had been brought to the uk.  the nca  said he had no links that they could find with britain, and therefore extraditing him had not been possible. it denied brexit had been a major factor. eighteen people have been jailed for their part in a gang that flooded north wales with drugs.   they were arrested in september 2019 as part of the largest operation of its type ever carried out by north wales police.   a judge at mold crown court described it as a "sophisticated operation", involving encrypted mobile phones, lie detectors and even a plot to attack a former gang member who had fallen out of favour.  police seized drugs with a street value of £2.1m. '100 county lines drug networks in wales'call to review 'criminal abuse' of mobile phonescounty lines threat prompts university to act the reach of the gang, based in liverpool, stretched to aberdeen and cornwall. it was an operation described as a classic example of a "county lines" conspiracy.   the group behind the supply, led by colin jones, were violent and were specifically targeted by police due to the threat posed to public safety.  officers had spent nearly three years investigating the gang, right to the very top.   colin jones, based in walton in liverpool, was described as a drugs wholesaler who rarely got his hands dirty. when he was arrested, police found he had nine phones, and two encrypted devices. he hired lie detector specialists to check out his colleagues. as well as selling drugs, he swapped them for sports cars.   colin jones had a team of call handlers who answered what the gang called "the echo line".   in a three-month period in 2018, the hotline took over 100,000 calls. police estimated it was selling several thousand pounds of drugs a day. drugs were also sent up and down the uk, sometimes in packages sent from local post offices in liverpool.  at one point the violence was turned on one of their former conspirators. colin jones and david rawling were secretly recorded talking to an unknown hit man arranging an attack on lee murray.   officers stepped in and stopped the attack, but believed a gun would have been involved. judge niclas parry spent three days sentencing the gang. he said they had controlled a significant portion of the drugs trade in deeside, casting a blight on the community. colin jones was sentenced to 21 years in total with the other gang members given sentences from four to 15 and a half years. police say it is a significant victory against the supply of drugs from big cities into north wales - but it remains a fight that will continue in the months to come. for four days running, towns and cities across russia have been hit by a wave of bomb alerts. dozens of schools, shopping centres, railway stations and public buildings have been evacuated. tens of thousands of people have been affected. so far, all of the alerts have proved to be hoaxes and the public has been urged to remain calm. the source of the threats is unclear but one official suggested they had originated outside russia. "there's reason to assume this was all organised abroad," the official in chelyabinsk told interfax news agency. on wednesday, the bomb scares spread to moscow, prompting the evacuation of the luxury gum shopping centre near the kremlin. in the capital alone, more than 50,000 people were caught up in the alerts, reports said. pro-kremlin newspapers have pointed to a "major hacking attack", possibly from ukraine. state tv said 205 companies and organisations had been targeted nationally. massive cyber-attack hits 99 countrieswhere has ransomware hit hardest?russian hackers 'target' macron campaign other reports suggested the threats were made via scrambled internet connections and were difficult to source. one official was quoted as saying the evacuations were part of an anti-terrorist drill but that has not been confirmed. the hoax calls began on sunday but the extent of the alerts only became clear by tuesday: in chelyabinsk, in the southern ural mountains, more than 11,000 people were cleared from 10 buildings on tuesdayin perm to the north-west, 5,700 people had to leave schools and public buildingsin the southern city of stavropol alone, 1,500 phone hoaxes had been received, state tv reportedother cities affected ranged from krasnoyarsk, novosibirsk and omsk in siberia to the enclave of kaliningrad in the far west they continued to spread on wednesday, with airports also targeted: in moscow, bomb alerts were reported in red square, at railway stations, universities and shopping centresthe river volga cities of samara and saratov were hit, with seven shopping centres targeted in saratov aloneseveral more siberian cities were affected: in ulan-ude there were alerts at six shopping centres, four schools and bus and railway stationsirkutsk and yakutsk were hit, and in tomsk more than 10 schools were evacuated, along with local courts, shopping centres and a bus station no-one is certain but the alerts appear to have come in the form of a pre-recorded voice message via internet telephony. one message received in the city of ufa was broadcast on national tv. "an explosive device has been placed in the building. evacuate the people, call the bomb squads. this is not a drill. do you understand me?"  a security source told pro-kremlin tabloid komsomolskaya pravda that the hoaxes were the result of a cyber attack organised from ukraine, although no evidence was given. an it security specialist quoted elsewhere spoke only of a foreign hacking attack. the governor of stavropol called it a "phone attack" that had come from abroad and one phone company spoke of an "international virtual operator". russian military exercise raises tension there was some suggestion, too, that the source of the disruption may have been closer to home. an aide to the russian defence ministry's inspector general was quoted as saying it was part of an anti-terror exercise. "for the first time since soviet times, large-scale anti-terrorism exercises are being carried out in russia, involving all government agencies responsible for state security," oleg ostrovsky told newspaper argumenty i fakty prikamye. the report was later deleted, according to bbc monitoring. russia has been hit by jihadist attacks, including a bombing on the st petersburg metro in april in which 16 people died. however, a former opposition mp, gennady gudkov, warned that if the current alerts really were the work of federal security officers, then "that is completely crap".  russia's military is due to start joint military exercises on thursday with belarus. the exercises, called zapad-2017 (west-2017) will involve a reported 12,700 soldiers in belarus and kaliningrad. some figures outside russia have predicted many more soldiers may be involved. four people arrested after a man was stabbed in a city centre have been released on bail. the attack happened near to the outback nightclub on queen street, wolverhampton, at 04:22 gmt on saturday. a 22-year-old man sustained a single stab wound to the back.  west midlands police said two men, aged 18 and 19, and two 15-year-old boys, who were arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent, have been bailed. the victim remains in hospital in a serious but stable condition.  the force added they believed it was a "targeted attack" with no threat to the wider public. follow bbc west midlands on facebook, on twitter, and sign up for local news updates direct to your phone. two people have been stabbed in manchester city centre. officers were called to reports of an assault near morrisons supermarket in piccadilly gardens at 12:10 gmt. one man has been taken to hospital with injuries not thought to be life threatening and another was treated at the scene for minor injuries, a police spokesperson said. the force added it was thought to be a "targeted attack" and there was no threat to the wider community. no arrests have yet been made. eyewitness gemma hepworth, 36, said there was "blood everywhere". "i came out and there were two men on the floor. morrisons staff were coming out with bandages, and people were asking if we knew anyone who could perform first aid.  "i offered my scarf and everyone was trying to help. some people were crying." a number of road closures are in place and members of the public have been asked to avoid the area. all stagecoach bus services travelling through oldham street have been diverted, the operator said. first manchester said on twitter a number of its routes had also been affected. north west ambulance service was alerted at 12:08 and sent 10 vehicles and crew to the scene. councillor jon-connor lyons thanked greater manchester police and other emergency personnel for their "rapid response". a man has been left seriously injured after a stabbing in a city centre. it happened near to the outback nightclub on queen street, wolverhampton, at 04:22 gmt. west midlands police said the 22-year-old victim sustained a single stab wound to the back. he is in hospital in a serious but stable condition.  two men, aged 18 and 19, and two 15-year-old boys, all from the city, have been arrested on suspicion of wounding with intent. all four remain in custody, the force said. det sgt neil bason, from force cid, said: "we believe this was a targeted attack with no threat to the wider public, but we'll be deploying extra officers to the area to give reassurance over the weekend. "at present our inquiries are ongoing and officers are in the area carrying out cctv and forensic investigations." witnesses are asked to contact west midlands police. a man has been shot outside a pub in greater manchester. witnesses said two men were seen brandishing a gun and threatening people in hattersley road, hyde, on saturday evening. the 35-year-old victim left the scene and presented at hospital with a stomach wound.  his injuries are not life-threatening.  greater manchester police believed it to be a "targeted attack" and is appealing for witnesses. det insp zoe stapleton said: "we know incidents such as this will understandably cause concern but i want to reassure the public that we have launched a full investigation, "at this stage we believe this to have been a targeted attack with no further threat to any members of the public." a man who was shot three times outside a club has survived the "targeted attack", greater manchester police has said. the victim, believed to be in his 20s, had been at the kingston mill venue in salford on friday night before the "isolated incident", officers added. he was taken to hospital at about 05:30 gmt on saturday, where he remains in a stable condition.  his wounds are not believed to be life-threatening. police have launched an attempted murder investigation and have appealed for anyone with information to contact them. det insp ben cottam said: "this was a well-attended club event and there are potentially a number of witnesses who may be able to assist with our enquiries. "i want to reiterate that this is believed to be a targeted attack and there is no threat to the wider community." a petrol bomb was believed to have been thrown at a house in an arson attack in shropshire. a fire started in the garden of the property on mary webb road in shrewsbury between 00:30 and 00:40 gmt. no-one was injured but damage was caused to the property, west mercia police said. insp paul mathison, from the force, said: "we believe this to be a targeted attack, with no wider threat to the public." people must be "optimistic but patient" about the coronavirus situation in the uk and the end to restrictions, boris johnson has said. the pm hailed the vaccine rollout, but warned that now was not the time to "relax". he said there were still more people in hospital than at the peak of the first wave, and steps taken to ease lockdown should be "cautious but irreversible". he is to set out a roadmap next week for lifting england's restrictions. the government said on sunday that it had met its pledge to offer at least one covid vaccine dose to everyone in the top four priority groups in the uk. more than 15 million people have received a first dose, according to the latest government figures. speaking at monday's downing street briefing, mr johnson hailed the "unprecedented national achievement" of hitting the target, but warned the threat from the virus remained "very real".  the prime minister warned that the government did not have all the "hard facts" about how the vaccine impacted infections and that there were still more people in hospital with covid-19 than in april - with admissions running at 1,600 a day across the uk. "we have to keep our foot to the floor," he said. 'no evidence' schools spread lots of covid third of social care staff 'still not vaccinated'first travellers arrive for hotel quarantine stayplan to end lockdown 'cautious but irreversible' mr johnson said no decisions were being taken before he unveiled his roadmap for ending england's restrictions, but that the government wanted this lockdown "to be the last", with "cautious but irreversible" progress. he added his plan next week would set out "as much as we possibly can about the route to normality, even though some things are very uncertain". although he said he was "increasingly optimistic" he admitted he could not give "an absolute cast-iron guarantee that we won't face further difficulties". "i don't want people to think i'm not optimistic. there's been a big change - science is now in the ascendency over the disease," he added. mr johnson also said the government was looking at introducing rapid lateral flow testing for venues such as nightclubs and some theatres that were unable to open last year. "i think that, in combination with vaccination, will probably be the route forward," he said. michael kill, chief executive of the night time industries association, said the "acknowledgement" would give late night businesses "the opportunity to deliver pilot schemes which will substantiate the ability for this sector to open safely at the appropriate time". "but more importantly we will be able to plan and prepare for that opportunity," he added. could this be the last lockdown? that is, of course, a huge shared hope and the government's stated aim. it will soon be exactly a year since the first lockdown was brought in.  who knew then that we'd be in a third period of national restrictions 12 months later? boris johnson has been accused, at times, of over-promising and under-delivering during this crisis. today, again, he's urging caution - even as case rates fall and the vaccine rollout goes well. that's because ministers really don't want to lift restrictions only to reimpose them again on a weary nation. it comes after more than 60 conservative mps wrote to mr johnson over the weekend, calling for a commitment to a "free life" and the ending of lockdown measures before may. steve baker, the deputy chair of the lockdown-sceptic covid research group (crg) of tory mps leading the call, said schools should return on 8 march, hospitality should reopen by easter and all other elements should be back to normal by 1 may - when all people in the top nine priority groups have been offered a vaccine. earlier, no 10 said the intention was to "start getting" pupils back into school on 8 march, but was not ruling out the possibility that they could be sent back in stages. the pm's official spokesman said it was "important" the planned review of restrictions was carried out this week, with details to be set out in mr johnson's road map on monday. the spokesman said he would not "pre-empt" what the road map might contain, but added: "it remains our priority to get kids back to school and we always said we want that to start from 8 march, if the science and evidence allows." lockdown rules: what are they and when will they end?schools: when will they reopen?vaccine: when will i get the jab?new variants: how worried should we be? the government is hoping to offer a jab to everyone in the first nine priority groups - including everyone over the age of 50 - by the end of april, mr johnson said. this would run alongside giving second doses within the 12-week window to those in the top four priority groups, who have already had a first dose. all those aged between 16 and 64 with underlying health conditions, as well as adult carers, are being contacted with the offer of a vaccination.  with every day that passes, it becomes clearer and clearer that the uk is winning its fight against covid. science, as boris johnson said, is in the ascendancy. it is easy to forget this virus only emerged just over a year ago. but now the uk has approved three vaccines for use - two of which have already started to be rolled out at speed. another two are being assessed by the regulator after promising trial results. there is confidence the mutations, while presenting a challenge, can be overcome. plans are already being made to update the vaccines if needed to work better against new variants. no vaccine is 100% effective and some people may choose not to take it. that's why advances in treatment are vital, too. a cheap steroid, dexamethasone, is being widely used to improve the survival rates of the sickest patients. and last week it emerged an arthritis drug, tocilizumab, could also further improve survival chances. there is still a long way to go, but there is a cautious belief in both westminster and among scientists that each step made from now on should be forward not back. speaking at the same downing street briefing, nhs england's chief executive sir simon stevens described the vaccine rollout as "two sprints and a marathon". he said the uk had passed the "finishing line of the first sprint" and now had a "second sprint between now and 30 april" to extend the vaccine rollout to higher risk groups. the "marathon" will involve vaccinating everybody in the country who is eligible, alongside the winter flu campaign and further booster shots if needed, sir simon added. meanwhile, on monday, the uk recorded another 9,765 new coronavirus infections, according to the latest government figures. it is the first time the daily cases figure has been under 10,000 since 2 october. a further 230 deaths within 28 days of a positive test were also recorded. fewer deaths tend to be reported on mondays due to a reporting lag over the weekend. in other developments: a third of social care staff in england have not had a covid vaccine, health secretary matt hancock has said, despite them being among the groups prioritisedthe first travellers required to stay at government-provided quarantine hotels under tougher border rules have begun arriving in the ukresearch by a team at the university of warwick suggests that schools do not appear to play a big role in spreading coronavirus in the community  downtime symphony: an hour of wind-down music to help you press pause and reset your mindare people born evil?: learn new things with greg james and bella mackie from britain's most inspiring teachers the international vaccine supply chain has been targeted by cyber-espionage, according to ibm. the company says it tracked a campaign aimed at the delivery "cold chain" used to keep vaccines at the right temperature during transportation. the attackers' identity is unclear - but ibm said the sophistication of their methods indicated a nation state. it follows warnings from governments - including the uk's - of countries targeting aspects of vaccine research. ibm says it believes the campaign started in september 2020.  it says phishing emails were sent out across six countries, which targeted organisations linked to the cold chain equipment optimisation platform (cceop) of gavi, the international vaccine alliance. gavi's partners include the world health organization, unicef, the world bank and the bill & melinda gates foundation. they help distribute vaccines around the world to some of the poorest regions. this sometimes requires a "cold chain".  for example, the pfizer-biontech vaccine - which was not the specific target of this campaign - will need to be kept at a temperature of about -70c as it is moved about. the attackers impersonated a business executive from a legitimate chinese company involved in cceop's supply cold chain to make it more likely the targets would engage with the email. they then sent phishing emails to organisations that provided transportation, which contained malicious code and asked for people's log in credentials.  that could have allowed them to understand the infrastructure that governments intended to use to distribute vaccines.  "advanced insight into the purchase and movement of a vaccine that can impact life and the global economy is likely a high-value and high-priority nation-state target," ibm says. ibm says the wider targeting included: the european commission's directorate general taxation and customs unioncompanies involved in manufacturing solar panels, which can be used to keep vaccines cold in places where reliable power is not availablea south korean software-development companya german website-development company, which supports clients associated with pharmaceutical manufacturers, container transport, biotechnology and manufacturers of electrical components for communications ibm says the campaign was uncovered by a security team it set up at the start of the pandemic to track down covid-19 cyber-threats.  "the precision targeting and nature of the specific targeted organisations potentially point to nation-state activity," the us company said.  "without a clear path to a [pay]out, cyber-criminals are unlikely to devote the time and resources required to execute such a calculated operation." ibm says it has notified those targeted as well as law-enforcement authorities. the us's cybersecurity and infrastructure security agency (cisa) has issued an alert encouraging organisations associated with the storage and transport of a vaccine to be on guard for the kind of attacks linked to ibm's report. in july, the uk warned russian intelligence had targeted uk vaccine research, including at oxford.  the us also warned of chinese hacking, while, more recently, microsoft said it had seen north korean and russian hackers targeting vaccine research.  officials suggested the activity so far had been about intelligence gathering rather than disruption of any research. more than a quarter of the incidents which the uk's national cyber security centre (ncsc) responded to were covid-related, according to its latest annual report. the review covers the period from september 2019 to august 2020, so the pandemic occupied an even higher proportion of the agency's efforts after the first lockdown began. in total there were 723 incidents of all kinds, marking close to a 10% rise on the previous period. of those, 194 were covid-related. some of the incidents related to countering nation-state attacks, but most were criminal in nature, the gchq division reported. it also disclosed that it had thwarted 15,354 campaigns that had used coronavirus themes as a "lure" to fool people into clicking on a link or opening an attachment containing malicious software. some involved fake shops selling ppe (personal protective equipment), test kits and even vaccines. protecting the nhs and health-related research has been a priority, the report said..  in july, the uk accused russia of trying to steal vaccine-related information through cyber-espionage.  and officials said they had continued to see an "ongoing threat" of states targeting the vaccine research-and-delivery programme.  the ncsc said it had scanned more than one million nhs ip (internet protocol) addresses to look for vulnerabilities, and had shared 51,000 indicators of compromise.  it has also carried out "threat hunting" to look for security risks on connected devices, and worked on the security of the nhs covid-19 contact-tracing app. the ncsc also warned ransomware attacks had become more common. ransomware locks people out of their computers and demands victims make a blackmail payment to restore access - and even then it is not always granted. the ncsc said it had handled more than three times as many ransomware incidents as in the previous year. these included an attack against redcar and cleveland council which, the officials said, had "caused considerable damage and disruption".  the report added the ncsc had observed a growing trend for such attacks to be more targeted and aggressive than previously. rather than just locking people out of access to their data until a ransom was paid, attackers often warned they would embarrass victims if they refused to comply. "we have seen the threat of data being leaked," paul chichester, director of operations, told the bbc. examples included details of staff salaries being published online. this meant victims were at risk even if they have backed up their data.  however, the ncsc said the uk did not appear to be as heavily targeted as some countries, because british victims were less likely to pay the attackers. the ncsc has also been working to increase skills and diversity in the cyber-security industry.  it said almost 12,000 girls had taken part in its 2020 competition. however, an advert for the government's related cyberfirst campaign was widely criticised last month for featuring a ballerina and the slogan "fatima's next job could be in cyber". the report also highlighted the agency's role in protecting parliament as it became "virtual" to prevent hacking of debates or votes.  and it revealed that the ncsc had just updated the system for producing cryptographic keys, which encrypt classified government and military systems.  a new electronic system was introduced to replace old-fashioned punch-tape. after being labelled the "patient zero" of an outbreak of covid, a congolese-canadian physician says he became a target for racist threats, a pariah in his community, and a "scapegoat" for local officials.  when dr jean-robert ngola heard that he had to pick up his daughter last may, he quickly did the maths. his daughter lived in montreal with her mother, about seven hours away from his home in campbellton, new brunswick.  as a family physician, he knew that he needed to be as safe as possible to limit the spread of covid to others. but as a parent, he had to come get his child so that her mother could attend a family funeral in africa. in order to get her and have contact with as few people as possible, he hopped in his car and drove all day, spending the night at his brother's before driving her back.  before leaving, dr ngola called the local police, asking for clarity around the laws about self-isolation.   new brunswick has one of the strictest quarantine policies in canada. along with several other eastern provinces, it has formed an "atlantic bubble" - in the early months of the pandemic, most forms of travel into the bubble were restricted, and anyone entering had to quarantine for 14 days. but as a frontline worker, he says police told him he was exempt. not wanting to leave his patients without a doctor, he decided to go back to work. on 25 may, dr ngola heard that one of his patients had been diagnosed with the virus. he got tested, and began to self-isolate with his four-year-old daughter.  at 11am on 27 may, he learned he, too, had the virus, although he had no symptoms.  then, his life began to fall apart. within the hour, his identity began to spread online. later in the afternoon, premier blaine higgs, who leads the provincial government, was chastising him on live television. at least two other people had contracted coronavirus "due to the actions of one irresponsible individual," mr higgs said, after nearly two weeks without a single case. although the premier did not name dr ngola directly, by that time, people had connected the dots, and photographs of his office were circulating online. provincial health officials told the media dr ngola had contracted the disease in the neighbouring province of quebec, and spread it to others because he did not follow the 14-day mandatory quarantine for people who had been out of new brunswick. but dr ngola, and his lawyer joel etienne, say the rules were not clear, and dr ngola was following the same practices as people around him.  they also dispute the province's claim that he was "patient zero". india coronavirus: 'our neighbours made us covid-19 pariahs'students fed up with being blamed for virus spike although no criminal charges were filed, dr ngola faces a civil charge for violating the emergency measures act and could face a fine up to c$10,200 ($7,600, £6,000). the case is currently making its way before the courts. his employer, vitalité health network, immediately suspended him without pay for breaking protocols.  "i was the scapegoat. as soon as my diagnosis is made… one hour later, my life changed," he said. in a statement to the bbc, a spokesperson for vitalite confirmed that dr ngola's suspension continues, and declined to comment further.  the premier's office did not respond to the bbc's request for comment. the reaction from the community was swift and brutal. dr ngola, who is originally from the democratic republic of congo, said people were telling him to "go back to africa" and other forms of racist abuse.  a simple guide:  what are the symptoms?teenage rituals: growing up, interruptedsuperspreaders: what makes some events so risky? quarantining in his home with his small daughter, he feared for his safety when his address was leaked online and had to go under police protection. but he was also constantly under police scrutiny, he says, because people kept phoning in with bogus "tips" claiming to have seen him break quarantine. dr ngola says the harassment was so bad, he had to leave the province. he was offered a job in a small community in quebec, where he has been living for the past several months. he says he feels welcome there, but his experience in campbellton has left psychological scars.  "i cannot have the same life because now i'm public," he says. this is not the first time he's had to start over. born in the congo, dr ngola had wanted to be a doctor since he was a small child, after coming down with polio and being unable to get the appropriate medical treatment because it was too costly.  "my childhood ambition was to become a doctor in order that children like myself would be spared," he says. he paid his way through school by tutoring other students, and practised medicine during his country's brutal civil war. in 2000, he immigrated to belgium, where he had to retrain in order to continue to be a doctor. then five years later, he relocated to canada, because he felt he would face less prejudice as an african immigrant. once again, he went back to school in order to practise medicine. now, he feels disillusioned. dr ngola says he believes his race and immigration status played a factor in how he was treated not only by the public at large, but by the province's top officials. "what is the difference with me? the difference is i'm black and i'm a foreigner," dr ngola said.  although he felt like a pariah at home, around the country his fellow physicians were rallying to his defence. in september, 1,500 physicians signed a letter condemning his treatment, and demanding an investigation into how his name was leaked to the press.  "all of us signed below have felt tremendous anger, discomfort and frustration with the backlash that followed once you were publicly identified. what unravelled thereafter was unjust, unkind and dehumanizing," the letter, which was spearheaded by dr danusha foster, read. "we strongly believe that systemic racism coupled with the stigma surrounding individuals infected with the covid-19 virus have significantly contributed to the crucifixion of your character within the public eye." dr foster, a family physician who lives in ontario, says that when she first heard about dr ngola, she, like many others, judged him. "we're in a deadly pandemic, and health professionals should be held to a higher standard at this time, because we're supposed to be modelling for the general population what we should be doing," she told the bbc. but after hearing about the abuse he was suffering, and reading media articles critical of the province's investigation, she began to feel sympathy.  "he was being judged in the public eye before the facts were known," she says. she says patient confidentiality is the "core" of the doctor-patient relationship, and whoever leaked his name should be held to account. after talking about his case on online physicians groups, she decided to organise the letter of support, to show dr ngola that he wasn't alone.  "i hadn't even written my letter, and i already had 800 names that wanted to sign," she says. "we realised as we watched this case that what happened to dr ngola, could have happened to anyone of us... if we made one little mistake." over 40 cases and two deaths have been connected to the outbreak in the campbellton region since 27 may. but it remains unclear if mr ngola was the source. anyone entering new brunswick from another province outside the atlantic bubble is supposed to quarantine for 14 days.  but residents of campbellton, which is on the border of quebec, were allowed to cross the border without self-isolating for certain reasons, such as if they worked in quebec, had to attend a medical appointment in quebec or if they shared custody of a child in quebec. according to the provincial guidelines, "all such workers and individuals who are exempt from self-isolation must travel directly to and from work and/or their accommodations, self-monitor and avoid contact with vulnerable individuals" dr ngola spent about 30 hours in quebec, including an overnight stay with his brother to rest up after the seven-hour drive. he also saw two colleagues in trois-rivieres, although they were masked and socially distanced. he also had contact with a petrol-station employee. dr ngola said many of his co-workers went back and forth to quebec and did not fully self-isolate, so he did not think he was breaking the rules.  his employer, vitalite health, told the cbc's fifth estate that all workers were ordered to self-isolate after returning to the province unless they lived in quebec.  mr etienne says regardless of whether his client broke the rules, the province failed to do its due diligence before blaming him for the outbreak. he says they had not finished contact-tracing the four individuals in quebec whom dr ngola had contact with, before claiming the doctor was the source of the covid cluster in new brunswick. he says their own private investigator found that neither his brother, the two colleagues, nor the gas station employee tested positive for covid. his daughter, however, did. both she and her father have made a full recovery.  there had been at least one confirmed case of covid in campbellton in the days prior to dr ngola's diagnosis, and his lawyer says he could have got it from community spread. the government has donated £20 million towards a break-neck plan to produce a vaccine to combat the deadly new coronavirus. health secretary matt hancock said the money would help the uk lead the way in developing a new inoculation. it comes as the death toll in china increased to 361 with the total number of cases there now above 17,000.  meanwhile 11 britons flown back from wuhan - the outbreak's epicentre - have begun two weeks in quarantine. the additional evacuees - who travelled from china via france - joined 83 people already in group isolation at arrowe park hospital in wirral.  the government's £20m investment will go to cepi - the coalition for epidemic preparedness innovations - a global body aiming to fast-track a vaccine within six to eight months. cepi chief executive dr richard hatchett said such a tight timescale was "unprecedented". how worried should we be about the new coronavirus?china set to open speed-built coronavirus hospitalsocial media tackles coronavirus fake news if the biologists are successful, more time would still be required to test the vaccine more widely and secure sign-off from medical regulators before it could be distributed across the world. "this is an extremely ambitious timeline - indeed, it would be unprecedented in the field of vaccine development," dr hatchett said. "it is important to remember that even if we are successful - and there can be no guarantee - there will be further challenges to navigate before we can make vaccines more broadly available." the uk's money will help fund the efforts of dr kate broderick, a 42-year-old scot based in california, who is working to create a coronavirus vaccine. "we hope to get the final product into human testing by early summer," dr broderick, a molecular geneticist who works for the pharmaceutical company inovio, told the bbc last week. how the plague taught us to fight coronaviruscan wearing masks stop the spread of viruses?uk pharmacies see sanitiser sales spike the coronavirus outbreak has been categorised as a global health emergency by the world health organisation, with cases confirmed in several countries including canada, australia, germany and japan, as well as in the uk. two people, a university of york student and one of their relatives, became the first people to test positive for the new strain in the uk and are being treated at a specialist unit in newcastle. meanwhile those isolated at arrowe park have spoken of their experiences as they continue their quarantine in a nurses' accommodation block. lecturer yvonne griffiths, 71, from cardiff, said she had been put in a shared flat with four separate rooms, a kitchen and a lobby area, where food and drinks were delivered. speaking on her third day in quarantine, she said she had "some interaction" with the others in her flat. "people go [to the lobby] to collect things and also pick up food and some people will stand having their food together, but all wearing masks," she said.  "obviously you have to put your mask down a little for you to eat." announcing the investment into stemming the spread of the virus, mr hancock said: "vaccines are our best defence against a host of deadly diseases, including coronavirus. "the uk is a hub of world-leading and pioneering research, and it is vital that we lead the way in developing new vaccines to target global threats with scientists from across the world." the death toll from the new virus, which is officially called 2019-ncov, now stands at more than 300. more than 17,000 cases have been confirmed and a small proportion of those - around 100 - have been identified outside china. the uk, us, russia and germany have all confirmed cases in recent days. latest figures from china's national health commission on monday showed that there were 21,558 suspected cases in the country and that 152,700 people are "under medical watch". your questions: you asked, we answeredthe story explained: how worried should we be?wuhan profiled: the city now in lockdownin detail: follow all our coverage here do you have information to share? please get in touch by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a bbc journalist. you can also contact us in the following ways: whatsapp: +44 7756 165803send pictures/video to yourpics@bbc.co.ukor upload your pictures/video heretweet: @bbc_haveyoursayplease read our terms & conditions and privacy policy seven internet service providers have filed a legal complaint against the uk's intelligence agency gchq. isps from the us, uk, netherlands and south korea have joined forces with campaigners privacy international to take the agency to task over alleged attacks on network infrastructure. it is the first time that gchq has faced such action. the move follows allegations about government snooping made by us whistleblower edward snowden. the isps claim that alleged network attacks, outlined in a series of articles in der spiegel and the intercept, were illegal and "undermine the goodwill the organisations rely on". the allegations that the legal actions are based on include: claims that employees of belgian telecommunications company belgacom were targeted by gchq and infected with malware to gain access to network infrastructure gchq and the us national security agency, where mr snowden worked, had a range of network exploitation and intrusion capabilities, including a "man-on-the-side" technique that covertly injects data into existing data streams to create connections that will enable the targeted infection of users the intelligence agencies used an automated system, codenamed turbine, that allowed them to scale up network implants german internet exchange points were targeted, allowing agencies to spy on all internet traffic coming through those nodes while the isps taking the action were not directly named in the leaked snowden documents, privacy international claims that "the type of surveillance being carried out allows them to challenge the practices... because they and their users are at threat of being targeted". privacy international has previously filed two other cases - the first against alleged mass surveillance programmes tempora, prism and upstream, and the second against the deployment by gchq of computer intrusion capabilities and spyware. eric king, deputy director of privacy international, said "these widespread attacks on providers and collectives undermine the trust we all place on the internet and greatly endangers the world's most powerful tool for democracy and free expression." the isps involved in the action are uk-based greennet, riseup (us), greenhost (netherlands), mango (zimbabwe), jinbonet (south korea), may first/people link (us)and the chaos computer club (germany). cedric knight, of isp greennet, added: "snowden's revelations have exposed gchq's view that independent operators like greennet are legitimate targets for internet surveillance, so we could be unknowingly used to collect data on our users. we say this is unlawful and utterly unacceptable in a democracy." gchq maintains that all its work is conducted "in accordance with a strict legal and policy framework which ensures that our activities are authorised, necessary and proportionate". cybercriminals are increasingly targeting apple devices and 2016 will see a rise in attacks on its operating systems, security experts suggest. according to security firm symantec, the amount of malware aimed at apple's mobile operating system (ios) has more than doubled this year, while threats to mac computers also rose. security firm fireeye also expects 2016 to be a bumper year for apple malware. systems such as apple pay could be targeted, it predicts. apple is an obvious target for cybercriminals because its products are so popular, said dick o'brien, a researcher at symantec. while the total number of threats targeting apple devices remains low compared with windows and android, symantec is seeing the range of threats multiply. last year, it was seeing a monthly average of between 10,000 and 70,000 mac computers infected with malware. "this is far fewer than windows desktops and we don't want to scaremonger. apple remains a relatively safe platform but apple users can no longer be complacent about security, as the number of infections and new threats rise," said mr o'brien. the number of unique os x computers infected with malware in the first nine months of 2015 was seven times higher than in all of 2014, its research found. a significant amount of this spike is accounted for by so-called greyware - applications that may not have malware attached but can still be annoying to users, by serving up unwanted ads or tracking their web-browsing habits. symantec also found seven new threats aimed at apple's mobile ios platform, with jailbroken devices - those that have been unlocked - being particularly vulnerable. and hackers are also increasingly targeting corporations, where mac use is now more prevalent. a corporate espionage group known as butterfly which attacked multi-billion dollar companies in 2015 developed malware tools that attacked both windows and apple computers. traditionally ios has been seen as a more secure platform than android because of the more closed community that apple runs for its apps but that is changing, according to fireeye. while it found that the vast majority - 96% - of mobile malware is targeted at android devices, ios is no longer immune. according to bryce boland, chief technology officer at fireeye, attackers are increasingly "finding ways into apple's walled garden, and that will ramp up next year". fireeye recently discovered that xcodeghost, ios malware that apple acted quickly to remove from its app store, had found its way into the networks of 210 us businesses. the attack was thought to be the first large-scale attack on apple's app store. the introduction of new payment systems, such as apple pay, will add a financial incentive for hackers, making it worth their "time and effort" to develop new malware, fireeye said. mr o'brien said: "we haven't yet seen any threats targeting apple pay but anything that involves a financial transaction will be of interest to hackers." researchers have found evidence that the stuxnet worm, which alarmed governments around the world, could be about to regenerate. stuxnet was a highly complex piece of malware created to spy on and disrupt iran's nuclear programme. no-one has identified the worm authors but the finger of suspicion fell on the israeli and us governments. the new threat, duqu, is, according to those who discovered it, "a precursor to a future stuxnet-like attack". its discovery was made public by security firm symantec, which in turn was alerted to the threat by one of its customers. the worm was named duqu because it creates files with the prefix dq. symantec looked at samples of the threat gathered from computer systems located in europe. initial analysis of the worm found that parts of duqu are nearly identical to stuxnet and suggested that it was written by either the same authors or those with access to the stuxnet source code. "unlike stuxnet, duqu does not contain any code related to industrial control systems and does not self-replicate," symantec said in its blog. "the threat was highly targeted towards a limited number of organisations for their specific assets." in other words, duqu is not designed to attack industrial systems, such as iran's nuclear production facilities, as was the case with stuxnet, but rather to gather intelligence for a future attack. the code has, according to symantec, been found in a "limited number of organisations, including those involved in the manufacturing of industrial control systems". symantec's chief technology officer greg day told the bbc that the code was highly sophisticated. "this isn't some hobbyist, it is using bleeding-edge techniques and that generally means it has been created by someone with a specific purpose in mind," he said. whether that is state-sponsored and politically motivated is not clear at this stage though. "if it is the stuxnet author it could be that they have the same goal as before. but if code has been given to someone else they may have a different motive," mr day said. he added that there was "more than one variant" of duqu. "it looks as if they are tweaking and fine-tuning it along the way," he said. the worm also removes itself from infected computers after 36 days, suggesting that it is designed to remain more hidden than its predecessor. the code used a "jigsaw" of components including a stolen symantec digital certificate, said mr day. "we provide digital certificates to validate identity and this certificate was stolen from a customer in taiwan and reused," said mr day. the certificate in question has since been revoked by symantec. the discovery of the stuxnet worm was a game-changer in the world of malware and forced governments around the world to beef up the security behind critical systems such as power and water. it brought the issues of cyber warfare, government-to-government espionage and cyber terrorism firmly to the top of the agenda. experts who have studied the stuxnet worm say that it was configured to damage motors used in uranium-enrichment centrifuges by sending them spinning out of control. iran later admitted that some of its centrifuges had been sabotaged although it downplayed the significance of stuxnet in that. stuxnet is not the only example of malware designed to cause government-level disruption.  in 2009 china was accused of spying on google and in the summer us defence firm lockheed martin was victim of a "significant cyber-attack" although it said that none of its programmes had been compromised. this week the us department for homeland security warned that politically-motivated hackers such as the anonymous co-operative could begin to target industrial control systems. one of the most sophisticated pieces of malware ever detected was probably targeting "high value" infrastructure in iran, experts have told the bbc.   stuxnet's complexity suggests it could only have been written by a "nation state", some researchers have claimed. it is believed to be the first-known worm designed to target real-world infrastructure such as power stations, water plants and industrial units. it was first detected in june and has been intensely studied ever since.  "the fact that we see so many more infections in iran than anywhere else in the world makes us think this threat was targeted at iran and that there was something in iran that was of very, very high value to whomever wrote it," liam o'murchu of security firm symantec, who has tracked the worm since it was first detected, told bbc news. some have speculated that it could have been aimed at disrupting iran's delayed bushehr nuclear power plant or the uranium enrichment plant at natanz. however, mr o'murchu and others, such as security expert bruce schneier, have said that there was currently not enough evidence to draw conclusions about what its intended target was or who had written it.  initial research by symantec showed that nearly 60% of all infections were in iran. that figure still stands, said mr o'murchu, although india and indonesia have also seen relatively high infection rates. stuxnet was first detected in june by a security firm based in belarus, but may have been circulating since 2009.  unlike most viruses, the worm targets systems that are traditionally not connected to the internet for security reasons. instead it infects windows machines via usb keys - commonly used to move files around - infected with malware. once it has infected a machine on a firm's internal network, it seeks out a specific configuration of industrial control software made by siemens. once hijacked, the code can reprogram so-called plc (programmable logic control) software to give attached industrial machinery new instructions. "[plcs] turn on and off motors, monitor temperature, turn on coolers if a gauge goes over a certain temperature," said mr o'murchu. "those have never been attacked before that we have seen." if it does not find the specific configuration, the virus remains relatively benign.  however, the worm has also raised eyebrows because of the complexity of the code used and the fact that it bundled so many different techniques into one payload.  "there are a lot of new, unknown techniques being used that we have never seen before," he said these include tricks to hide itself on plcs and usb sticks as well as up to six different methods that allowed it to spread.  in addition, it exploited several previously unknown and unpatched vulnerabilities in windows, known as zero-day exploits.  "it is rare to see an attack using one zero-day exploit," mikko hypponen, chief research officer at security firm f-secure, told bbc news.  "stuxnet used not one, not two, but four." he said cybercriminals and "everyday hackers" valued zero-day exploits and would not "waste" them by bundling so many together. microsoft has so far patched two of the flaws.  mr o'murchu agreed and said that his analysis suggested that whoever had created the worm had put a "huge effort" into it.  "it is a very big project, it is very well planned, it is very well funded," he said.  "it has an incredible amount of code just to infect those machines." his analysis is backed up by other research done by security firms and computer experts.  "with the forensics we now have it is evident and provable that stuxnet is a directed sabotage attack involving heavy insider knowledge," said ralph langner, an industrial computer expert in an analysis he published on the web.  "this is not some hacker sitting in the basement of his parents' house. to me, it seems that the resources needed to stage this attack point to a nation state," he wrote.  mr langner, who declined to be interviewed by the bbc, has drawn a lot of attention for suggesting that stuxnet could have been targeting the bushehr nuclear plant.  in particular, he has highlighted a photograph reportedly taken inside the plant that suggests it used the targeted control systems, although they were "not properly licensed and configured". mr o'murchu said no firm conclusions could be drawn.  however, he hopes that will change when he releases his analysis at a conference in vancouver next week.  "we are not familiar with what configurations are used in different industries," he said.  instead, he hopes that other experts will be able to pore over their research and pinpoint the exact configuration needed and where that is used. a spokesperson for siemens, the maker of the targeted systems, said it would not comment on "speculations about the target of the virus".  he said that iran's nuclear power plant had been built with help from a russian contractor and that siemens was not involved.  "siemens was neither involved in the reconstruction of bushehr or any nuclear plant construction in iran, nor delivered any software or control system," he said. "siemens left the country nearly 30 years ago." siemens said that it was only aware of 15 infections that had made their way on to control systems in factories, mostly in germany. symantec's geographical analysis of the worm's spread also looked at infected pcs.  "there have been no instances where production operations have been influenced or where a plant has failed," the siemens spokesperson said. "the virus has been removed in all the cases known to us."   he also said that according to global security standards, microsoft software "may not be used to operate critical processes in plants". it is not the first time that malware has been found that affects critical infrastructure, although most incidents occur accidentally, said mr o'murchu, when a virus intended to infect another system accidentally wreaked havoc with real-world systems.  in 2009 the us government admitted that software had been found that could shut down the nation's power grid.  and mr hypponen said that he was aware of an attack - launched by infected usb sticks - against the military systems of a nato country.  "whether the attacker was successful, we don't know," he said.  mr o'murchu will present his paper on stuxnet at virus bulletin 2010 in vancouver on 29 september. researchers from kaspersky labs will also unveil new findings at the same event.  the un has warned that burma's reform programme could be put at risk by continued communal violence in the western state of rakhine. an official said 64 people had been killed in violence this week between local buddhists and muslim rohingyas - revising down figures he gave earlier.  thousands of homes have been destroyed as clashes spread across the state.  this is the first serious outburst of violence since june, when a state of emergency was declared in rakhine. at that time deadly clashes claimed dozens of lives and thousands of people were forced to flee their homes - many are yet to return.  a local journalist told bbc burmese the current situation was unclear and that the death toll may yet rise again as reports of killings come in from remote areas of the state.  the bbc's jonathan head in bangkok says that the statement by the un is the strongest yet on the unrest which has gripped the state since june. it warns the government that all its impressive progress on reforming burma's authoritarian political structures could be undone by the damage caused to the country's social fabric if the unrest cannot be stopped, our correspondent says.  "the vigilante attacks, targeted threats and extremist rhetoric must be stopped. if this is not done... the reform and opening up process being currently pursued by the government is likely to be jeopardised," the statement from secretary general ban ki-moon's office said.  but the atmosphere across the state remain volatile, witnesses say, with groups of rakhine buddhists and muslims launching vigilante-style attacks against one another.  on friday six towns were hit by clashes and a night-time curfew is in place in several locations including min bya and mrauk oo where the latest spate of violence began.   it is unclear what prompted the latest clashes. the rakhine buddhists and muslims, believed to be mainly rohingya, blame each other for the violence. in bangladesh, border officials said they believed several boats with rohingyas on board were waiting to try to cross the river from burma. one official said 52 rohingyas had been sent back in the last few days.   it was the rape and murder of a buddhist woman by three muslims in may that set off the initial unrest.  a mob later killed 10 muslims in retaliation, although they were unconnected with the earlier incident, and the violence escalated after that.  in june, about 90 people were killed as clashes spread across the state. the houses of both buddhists and muslims were burnt down and thousands of people fled. muslims throughout burma have abandoned plans to celebrate the festival of eid al-adha because of the violence. there is long-standing tension between the ethnic rakhine people, who make up the majority of the state's population, and muslims, many of whom are rohingya and are stateless.  the burmese authorities regard the rohingya as illegal immigrants and correspondents say there is widespread public hostility to them.     in august burma set up a commission to investigate the violence between buddhists and muslims in the west of the country. authorities earlier rejected a un-led inquiry.  uk firms have been warned about "serious" cyber attacks originating in china that seek to steal trade secrets. the gang behind the attacks has compromised technology service firms and plans to use them as a proxy for attacks, security firms have said. the group, dubbed apt10, is using custom-made malware and spear phishing to gain access to target companies. the national cyber security centre and cyber units at pwc and bae systems collaborated to identify the group. "operating alone, none of us would have joined the dots to uncover this new campaign of indirect attacks," said richard horne, cyber security partner at pwc. a detailed report drawn up by the three organisations reveals that the group has been active since 2014 but ramped up its attacks in late 2016. in particular, said the report, it targeted firms who ran key it functions on behalf of large uk companies. the anatomy of a nation-state hack attackchinese hackers turn to ransomware pwc and bae said the group had mounted many different attacks as part of a campaign they called operation cloud hopper.  by targeting the suppliers of it outsourcing, the attackers were able to stealthily gain access to the networks and systems of their true targets.  dr adrian nish, head of threat intelligence at bae, said the attackers used these third parties as a "stepping stone" to get at the companies and organisations they were really interested in.  infiltrating supply chains gave the attackers an easy route into many different targets. "organisations large and small rely on these providers for management of core systems and as such they can have deep access to sensitive data," he said. "it is impossible to say how many organisations might be impacted altogether at this point."  the security organisations involved in exposing the apt10 campaign say they have seen firms in the uk, europe and japan being targeted by the group. the national cyber security centre and the two security firms have warned known victims that they have been compromised. spear phishing emails booby-trapped with custom-made malware were sent to key staff in it services firms in the first stage of an attack. once the hackers had won access they sought out intellectual property and other sensitive data.  the hacking group maintained a massive network of sites and domains online to serve their various attacks and as a conduit for data they stole, said dr nish. forensic analysis of the times when the attackers were most active as well as the tools and techniques they used led pwc and bae to conclude that the group was based in china.  they have not established who is behind the apt10 group or how it chooses its targets. a new threat targeting infrastructure in the energy industry has been uncovered by security specialists. the attack, known as shamoon, is said to have hit "at least one organisation" in the sector. shamoon is capable of wiping files and rendering several computers on a network unusable. on wednesday, saudi arabia's national oil company said an attack had led to its own network being taken offline. although saudi aramco did not link the issue to the shamoon threat, it did confirm that the company had suffered a "sudden disruption". in a statement, the company said it had now isolated its computer networks as a precautionary measure. the disruptions were "suspected to be the result of a virus that had infected personal workstations without affecting the primary components of the network", a statement read. it said the attack had had "no impact whatsoever" on production operations. on thursday, security firms released the first detailed information about shamoon. experts said the threat was known to have had hit "at least one organisation" in the energy sector. "it is a destructive malware that corrupts files on a compromised computer and overwrites the mbr (master boot record) in an effort to render a computer unusable," wrote security firm symantec. the attack was designed to penetrate a computer through the internet, before targeting other machines on the same network that were not directly connected to the internet. once infected, the machines' data is wiped. a list of the wiped files then sent back to the initially infected computer, and in turn passed on to the attacker's command-and-control centre. during this process, the attack replaces the deleted files with jpeg images - obstructing any potential file recovery by the victim. seculert, an israel-based security specialist, also analysed the malicious code and concluded that it had unusual characteristics compared with other recent attacks. "the interesting part of this malware is that instead of staying under the radar and collect information, the malware was designed to overwrite and wipe the files," the company said. "why would someone wipe files in a targeted attack and make the machine unusable?" shamoon is the latest in a line of attacks that have targeted infrastructure. one of the most high-profile attacks in recent times was stuxnet, which was designed to hit nuclear infrastructure in iran. others, like duqu, have sought to infiltrate networks in order to steal data. 